irrelevant_articles = [
##### article 1
"""
Researchers at the South Carolina Aquarium have documented a unique feeding strategy of dolphins in the Charleston Harbor.

Dolphins can be seen using the side of a docked commercial shipping vessel to help catch their prey, according to South Carolina Aquarium Educator and Scientist Meghan Galipeau.

Described as an adaptive strategy they developed in an urbanized estuary, the dolphins corner a fish by chasing it against the side of a ship. Oftentimes, the fish will try to escape by jumping out of the water.

"It's never been documented that the dolphins are using this type of commercial shipping vessel to do that," Galipeau said. "That's what makes this unique and special to seeing that happen here."
"It's really interesting to see how the dolphins are using those ships to their advantage to feed more efficiently," she continued. "It's really cool for us to be able to identify that and study that and see how they have adjusted to the environment that we share."

Those interested in witnessing the feeding behavior must remain 150 feet away from the dolphin, per federal law. Researchers at the South Carolina Aquarium were able to record the behavior by boat after receiving a permit allowing them to approach more closely while still disrupting the animals as little as possible.

""",

##### article 2
"""
The Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Fisheries in Norway is implementing new conditions for participation in snow crab fishing to ensure "better profitability". It would be a developed measure already implemented in December 2023.

According to Fisheries and Ocean Minister Marianne Sivertsen Næss, through rigorous participation, "fewer participants will provide more predictability for the operators and limit the environmental impact caused by abandoned and lost gear in the sea."

Prior, the petition for a participation limit was consulted and according to the Ministry, almost all agents agreed on its implementation. Thus, the ministry decided that the measure would come into effect on January 1, 2025.

Precisely, participation is limited by requiring activity in the catch during two of the qualifying years (2020, 2021, 2022 until May 16). Investors can apply for exemptions.

Finally, the recall decision will be notified to all vessel owners and permits will disappear. Also, new conditions for snow crab permits will be communicated.

The new conditions will take effect immediately so that the process of handling applications for new snow crab permits can begin.

For the synergy between the fleets and the land-based industry
Additionally, agreements between vessels with a new snow crab permit and the land-based industry will be encouraged. To this end, it has been decided that 10% of the total snow crab quota will be set aside for the delivery of live snow crab starting in 2025. Vessels will apply to harvest this raw material when collaborating with the industry.

Regarding this measure, the Minister explained: "I am committed to stimulating more activity on land, and I will see if earmarking raw material can contribute. At the same time, we must ensure the profitability of the vessels, and it is necessary to make adjustments in line with new operating patterns."

In April, the Norwegian snow crab fishery obtained Marine Stewardship Council certification due to stock status, ecosystem impact, and management practices.
""",

#### article 3
"""
Jakarta (Indonesia), 16 February 2024 – Late night in early December, a fishing vessel engaged in illegal activities was intercepted off the coast of Rembang, Central Java, Indonesia, by the country’s Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries (KKP). The KKP patrol boat that detected the vessel used nightlights and satellite imagery data provided by Skylight, a maritime intelligence platform.

The operation was the result of close cooperation efforts between the KKP, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), and Skylight. Since 2020, the three entities have been working together to enhance the capacity and capability of the KKP in maritime domain awareness (MDA) – the understanding of anything associated with the maritime domain that could impact security – and law enforcement.

“This operation is just one of many examples that demonstrate the effectiveness and impact of the partnership between the KKP and UNODC in improving maritime transparency and protecting the ocean from crimes in the fisheries sector,” said Fatimana Agustinanto, Programme Officer at UNODC. “It also shows the commitment and determination of the KKP to enforce the law and safeguard Indonesia’s marine resources.”

Skylight offers a product that combines artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to identify suspicious vessel behaviour and alert authorities. UNODC, through its Global Maritime Crime Programme, facilitates Skylight’s platform and services to the KKP at no cost, as well as communication and data sharing between Skylight and the KKP. UNODC and Skylight also consistently provide MDA training to KKP analysts to ensure the effective use of these MDA tools.

The Skylight’s maritime intelligence platform maps out the positions of vessels around Indonesia, aiding to identify and intercept those involved in illegal activities.
The Skylight’s maritime intelligence platform maps out the positions of vessels around Indonesia, aiding to identify and intercept those involved in illegal activities.
“Fisheries crime is no longer limited to only illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, but the concept has expanded to cover a much broader spectrum of associated crimes taking place on fishing vessels or related to fisheries operations, including human trafficking, forced labour, drug trafficking, illegal transshipment of fuel, arms and other goods, as well as money laundering and other custom-related crimes,” said Erik van der Veen, UNODC Country Manager for Indonesia. “For this reason, fisheries crime continues to pose a serious threat to national and regional maritime security.”

Indonesia has been leading efforts to combat crimes in the fisheries sector since its 2016 initiative to establish regional cooperation to counter such crimes. The country revealed in its 2016 initiative brief to the United Nations that all of the one thousand fishing vessels caught fishing illegally in Indonesia had also violated other laws and regulations, including forgery of vessels documents, deactivation of vessel transmitters, and illegal transshipment, among others.

To combat the issue, the KKP has been conducting regular patrols and operations to detect and deter illegal activities related to fisheries crime in its waters, with the support of UNODC and its partner Skylight. These efforts are funded by the U.S. Government, as part of its support to UNODC and its efforts to combat transnational organized crime in the maritime domain.

The KKP and UNODC will continue to work together to strengthen Indonesia’s capacity to fight against fisheries crime and other maritime crimes in the region.
""",

####article 4
"""
A broken blood vessel in the eye—called subconjunctival hemorrhage—causes a red spot on the white part of your eye. It is a common problem that usually heals on its own in several days or weeks. Most of the time, you don't need medical attention for broken blood vessels in the eye unless they occur frequently.

This article covers potential causes for a broken blood vessel in the eye, how long it takes to heal, and when to contact a healthcare provider.

Causes of a Popped Blood Vessel in the Eye
There are many potential causes of a broken blood vessel in the eye. It can result from irritation, like that from dirty contact lenses, injury, such as eye or head trauma, illness, or certain health conditions.1 If you notice a broken blood vessel in your eye and are unsure of the cause, consider the following possibilities.

Irritation
Irritation due to contact lenses is a common cause of broken blood vessels in the eye, especially among younger people. The following are some common causes of eye irritation:2

Vigorously rubbing your eyes: Rubbing your eyes can put extra pressure on the eye, leading to a broken blood vessel.
Dirty or old contact lenses: Substances can build up on contact lenses that could irritate the eye, leading to a popped blood vessel.
Improper contact lens removal: Improperly removing contact lenses could lead to a popped blood vessel in the eye.
Eye strain: Eye strain can result from reading or looking at a screen for a long time, which could cause a broken blood vessel in the eye.
Injury
An injury directly to the eye or a trauma to the head can result in a broken blood vessel. If you experience a head injury that results in broken bones, it's possible to develop a broken blood vessel in your eye. However, the symptoms may appear 12 to 24 hours following the injury. Common causes of injury include the following:2
Tarlan B, Kiratli H. Subconjunctival hemorrhage: risk factors and potential indicators. Clin Ophthalmol. 2013;7:1163-70. doi:10.2147/OPTH.S35062.


Foreign object in your eye: It is possible for a foreign object in your eye—from a speck of sand to something bigger—to cause a popped blood vessel.
Trauma to the eye or head: The pressure of direct head trauma can cause capillaries (tiny blood vessels) in your eyes to break.3
Illness
Illnesses, such as a viral infection, can cause symptoms that could lead to a broken blood vessel in the eye, including:2

Repeated powerful sneezing: Sneezing repeatedly causes a quick, brief rise in your blood pressure, putting added strain on your blood vessels and potentially leading to a popped blood vessel.3
A hacking cough: A potential side effect of a hacking cough is a broken blood vessel due to the rise in blood pressure caused briefly by the coughing.3
Vomiting: Vomiting puts extra strain on your head and eyes and can potentially cause a broken blood vessel.
Health Conditions
Certain health conditions are associated with an increased risk of broken blood vessels in the eye. These include:2
Conjunctivochalasis: Conjunctivochalasis is a condition caused by aging that leads to loose conjunctiva (the membrane that covers the front surface of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelid). When it's severe, it can lead to a broken blood vessel, eye fatigue, dryness, and blurred vision.4
Pinguecula: A pinguecula is a small, noncancerous tissue growth on the conjunctiva that can contribute to broken blood vessels in the eye.
Diabetes: Diabetes can affect blood vessels throughout the body, including the eyes. Although uncommon, diabetes can lead to a popped eye vessel.
High blood pressure: Although uncommon, the added strain on blood vessels due to high blood pressure can lead to a broken blood vessel in the eye.
Blood-clotting disorders: Blood-clotting disorders can cause blood problems throughout the body. Although they are not a common cause of subconjunctival hemorrhage, they can sometimes be the reason that one occurs.1
Other Causes
Sometimes, you can break a blood vessel in your eye through standard tasks, like bending forward or straining on the toilet, as follows:

Increased pressure in the head and neck: Movements such as lifting, pushing, or bending forward can put extra pressure on the eyes, resulting in a broken blood vessel.5
Recent eye surgery: Although the eyes are relatively small compared to the rest of the body, they have many different parts. If an eye surgeon performs surgery in one part of the eye, it can lead to a disrupted blood vessel elsewhere in the eye.5
Medications: Although it may be a less common cause of a popped blood vessel in the eye, medications that can make you bleed more easily, such as aspirin or blood thinners, can lead to a broken blood vessel.1
What to Do If You Have a Popped Blood Vessel in the Eye
A popped blood vessel in the eye generally requires no treatment and should go away on its own. If it's causing irritation, you can use artificial tears for relief.3

How Long Does It Take a Burst Blood Vessel in the Eye to Go Away?
It usually takes days to weeks for a burst blood vessel in the eye to go away without treatment.3 As the eye improves, the white part of the eye may start to look yellow.6

When to Contact a Healthcare Provider
Let a healthcare provider know if you frequently get a burst blood vessel in the eye that doesn't improve with time or if you are unsure of the cause. A healthcare provider will check your blood pressure and perform an eye exam. They may consider additional testing if an underlying medical cause is suspected, which is more common among older adults.7

Summary
A broken blood vessel in the eye (subconjunctival hemorrhage) has many potential causes, such as rubbing your eyes too hard, intense coughing or sneezing, eyestrain, eye surgery, or a viral infection. A broken blood vessel in the eye usually goes away on its own. If it occurs frequently, without an apparent cause, or you experience them often, see a healthcare provider.
""",

#### article 5
"""
Illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) (1) fishing is global in nature, but more widespread in certain regions (2–3). This implies that IUU fishing is an important negative driver that needs to be tackled by both the global community and individual countries if we wish to secure sustainable and inclusive benefits from renewable marine resources (4). In the absence of truly effective national, regional, and international institutions, policies, and actions, and in the presence of international noncooperation, IUU fishing is undermining the ability of coastal countries to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations that the world has agreed upon (5). IUU fishing has the potential to exacerbate the detrimental effects (6) and losses that global illicit trade in marine catch has on individuals, societies, and governments, as well as nature.
The Global Agenda Council of the World Economic Forum defines illicit trade as trade that “involves money, goods or value gained from illegal and generally unethical activity. It encompasses a wide variety of illegal trading activities, including human trafficking, environmental crime, illegal trade in natural resources, various types of intellectual property infringements, trade in certain substances that cause health or safety risks, smuggling of excisable goods and trade in illegal drugs, as well as a variety of illicit financial flows” (7). For example, illicit trade in the arts involves people stealing, selling, forging, and trading artwork illegally.
We would like to stress that not all fisheries catches that are unreported can be assumed to be illegal. In many cases, small-scale, artisanal catches are simply not reported because there is no official or legal mandate to record and hence report such catches, or even if there notionally is such a requirement, no data collection system or resources are in place to record and report all artisanal catches in many coastal communities around the world (8–9).
Daniels et al. (3) identify two major potential channels through which illicit trade in fish is enabled. The first practice uses at-sea transshipments, which involves offloading catches from multiple fishing boats onto large freezer and processing ships at sea. This makes proper and transparent accounting of the origin and legality of catches very difficult or even impossible to achieve. For example, transshipment activities account for about 16% of fish exported from West African waters, and about 35 transshipment vessels were seen in West African waters in 2013 (3). Most of these were likely operating under flags of convenience (9), making accountability and transparency even more challenging. The second practice that enables illicit trade in seafood relates to how fish is transported for exports (3). It is estimated that about 84% of fish exported out of West Africa are transported in large refrigerated containers that are generally subjected to far less stringent reporting and inspection requirements (3). A third mechanism for illicit trade, in addition to the two channels mentioned above, is transport of illegally caught seafood into nearby local and regional markets to satisfy domestic demand in fisheries that are export-dominated. These three pathways are direct enablers of “laundering” illegal (10) as well as unreported or underreported catches into illicit trade. It is worth noting that transshipment is also a major enabler of labor abuses and modern slavery at sea (5, 11).
Many species of fish (collectively referring to exploited finfish and aquatic invertebrates), including both demersal and pelagic species (12–13), are targeted by both foreign and domestic fishing vessels in the Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ) of sovereign countries, sometimes illegally. Such catches are often processed aboard large foreign industrial transshipment vessels and directly shipped overseas without unloading and processing in host countries, thereby depriving local economies of revenue, income, jobs, and economic impacts (14). The global activities of many industrial fishing fleets, including so-called IUU vessels, as well as the prevalence of transshipment vessels to circumvent landing and processing in host countries have been considered analogous to international organized crime (15). Thus, by not landing, reporting, and processing fish in the host country in whose waters the fish were caught, before exporting them, substantial economic and food and nutritional security losses are incurred by the communities and countries whose waters are being exploited (16).
Here, we estimate the potential economic costs of likely illicit trade in marine fish catch of the world by focusing on the potential losses to the legitimate trade system and associated economy due to such illicit trade, in terms of catches and gross revenues. In addition, and to provide a broader picture of the economic effects of illicit trade in marine fish catch, we compute the potential economic impacts, household income impacts, and tax revenue losses that result from such illicit activities.
RESULTS
Catch and fisheries revenue losses
We find that between 7.7 and 14.0 million metric tons of unreported fish catches are potentially traded illicitly each year (Table 1). We provide in table S1 the range of catch losses for each of the 143 countries included in our study. These numbers show that a substantial amount of seafood is likely illegally and illicitly taken out of the legitimate food supply system of many countries, affecting the food security and livelihoods of millions. These levels of catch volumes being traded illicitly suggest that gross revenues of between US$8.9 and US$17.2 billion per year are being redirected out of the legitimate market through illicit trade (Table 1). Table S1 presents the range of revenue losses for each of the 143 countries included in our study.
""",

#### article 6
"""
Today, the Environmental Justice Foundation commends the European Commission for approving new rules that require stricter controls for landings by EU fishing vessels, providing new tools to prevent significant misreporting of unsorted catches when landing in selected ports, including those in third countries.

It is welcome that the new rules require advanced and stricter control tools, such as CCTV to monitor landings, and set minimum benchmarks for the rates of inspection on trans-shipments. If properly implemented, this can increase transparency and accuracy in reporting by EU fleets that catch a large number of species, including those that have been overfished, such as yellowfin tuna in the Indian Ocean.

Sean Parramore, Senior EU Advocacy Officer at the Environmental Justice Foundation, said: "Stricter control measures on landings by EU vessels that have more leeway to misreport their catches are critical to prevent hidden overfishing. In the long run, everyone loses if we open the door to fish fraud. Fish stocks will collapse and the EU's credibility in its efforts to promote sustainable fisheries on the world stage will be severely undermined. These new rules can help prevent that.“

A first list of ports is to be adopted by July 2024, following input from EU Member States. Sean Parramore added: “When selecting ports, it is crucial that there is sufficient evidence that the conditions approved today are actually in place. This will be key for the EU to continue leading by example in fighting unreported fishing globally.”

ENDS

Notes to editors

EJF works internationally to inform policy and drive systemic, durable reforms to protect our environment and defend human rights. We investigate and expose abuses and support environmental defenders, Indigenous peoples, communities, and independent journalists on the frontlines of environmental injustice. Our campaigns aim to secure peaceful, equitable, and sustainable futures.

Our investigators, researchers, filmmakers, and campaigners work with grassroots partners and environmental defenders across the globe. Our work to secure environmental justice aims to protect our global climate, ocean, forests, and wildlife and defend basic human rights.

For more information or to speak to one of our expert staff, please email media@ejfoundation.org.
""",

### article 7
"""
Each day in fishing communities around the world, not every fish is counted. This happens in part because of illegal fishing, poor or incomplete surveys and discarded fish from commercial operations.

Recording how many fish are caught is one important requirement to measure the well-being of a fish stock — if scientists know the number of fish taken from the ocean, they can adjust management of that fishery to keep it from being overfished. Missing catch data, however, are rampant, causing concern that fisheries around the world are overfished.

A new study by University of Washington scientists finds that in many cases, this isn’t true. Specifically, misreporting caught fish doesn’t always translate to overfishing. The study was published online this month in the journal Fish and Fisheries.

“While quantifying total catch is important for understanding how much is removed from the system, it is possible to manage sustainably even if we don’t know those numbers,” said lead author Merrill Rudd, a UW doctoral student in aquatic and fishery sciences. “This paper shows there are some situations where, just because there is unreported catch, it doesn’t mean we are overfishing.”

The researchers modeled five different misreporting scenarios on a simulated fishery: complete reporting of catch numbers, constant over-reporting, constant under-reporting, increasing reporting rate over time and decreasing reporting rate over time. They found that in cases where misreporting was constant, the fish population could still be managed sustainably over the years because misreporting was proportional each year.

But in cases where misreporting increased or decreased year to year, those fisheries were found to be over- or under-fished.

In other words, the catch reporting trends — not the specific numbers of fish caught — are the most critical elements to consider when trying to understand a fishery’s overall status, the authors said.

“It turns out that if you know what the trend is in a fish population, it doesn’t matter as much if you don’t know the catch numbers perfectly,” said Trevor Branch, senior author and a UW associate professor of aquatic and fishery sciences. “Now we think we know better what impact unreported catch has on fishery status.”

A massive effort is underway through the University of British Columbia’s Sea Around Us initiative to reconstruct the catch data for fisheries worldwide. It’s clear from this work that misreporting at a constant rate happens frequently in fisheries around the world. The UW study connects with the reconstruction efforts by showing that many of these fish populations can still be well managed despite management being based on models using misreported catches.

Misreporting can happen at the dock, on the boat and in processing plants — and many fish aren’t counted due to illegal fishing, sport fishing or discarded fish.

No two fisheries are alike worldwide, and each faces its own challenges with management. Reporting what is caught is not always standard practice, and yet managers must evaluate each year the ability of a fishery to withstand fishing pressure. That, in turn, affects local economies and livelihoods.

Instead of spending exhaustive time and money on trying to count each fish, managers could instead ask locals about fishing practices over the years to try to understand whether a misreporting trend is at play. They could also complete more biomass or biological surveys to better understand the life history of the fish.

“It might not be wise to allocate all of the monitoring funds toward understanding what the total catch is because you might be able to manage sustainably without that information,” Rudd said. “Instead, if you could get a handle on the trends in each fishery, that might be a better use of funds.”

Branch saw the need for a broad look at misreporting when helping to manage southern bluefin tuna. Right before a big management change was enacted, scientists discovered there had been major under-reporting of tuna catches.

“My initial reaction was, ‘oh my goodness, we have been overfishing this whole time. When we model this, the fishery will be in a much worse state,'” Branch said.

But when scientists added the missing catch numbers back into the model, the tuna population status actually improved into the future.

“A takeaway of this study is to not be so alarmist when there are missing data, and instead understand the processes of how the data are used,” Rudd said. “Catch data don’t exist in a vacuum. To determine how the world’s fisheries are doing, you must consider the catch data with any other information available to make the management decisions.”

The study was funded by the National Science Foundation IGERT Program on Ocean Change.
""",

### article 8
"""
What is illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing?
IUU fishing is that which takes place outside of the regulations set by governments and fishing management bodies. IUU fishing is worth up to an estimated £19.3 billion (US$ 23.5 billion) annually.

Illegal fishing typically refers to fishing that breaks local or international law, as set by a fishing management body. It can include fishing without a license or permit, fishing in a closed-off area, fishing with prohibited gear, fishing above a quota, or the fishing of prohibited species.

Unreported fishing refers to fishing activity that is not reported to the relevant authorities or is misreported and contravenes local or international law.

Unregulated fishing frequently overlaps with illegal, unreported and overfishing. It refers to fishing vessels operating without being subject to any regulations. This could be fishing in areas where conservation or management measures have not been put in place, or when vessels from nations who have not joined the relevant management organisation fish within its waters without following the rules.

Not all unregulated or unreported fishing is criminal, it could be a subsistence fisher in a developing region or accidental misreporting of a fish species.

What is destructive fishing?
Destructive fishing practices include the use of cyanide or explosives to catch fish. Cyanide is used to stun fish making them easier to catch. Explosives like dynamite are used to kill fish so they float to the surface and can easily be scooped up by nets. These destructive fishing practices can result in irreversible damage to habitats and ecosystems.

What is sustainable fishing?
Fishing is sustainable if it leaves enough fish in the oceans and minimises impacts on habitats and ecosystems. For this to happen, fisheries must be managed effectively.
What is sustainable fishing?
How does the MSC Program address IUU and destructive fishing?
Destructive fishing methods are not allowed within the MSC program and no fishery using them is eligible for certification to the MSC Fisheries Standard for sustainability.

The MSC program requires fishers to have strong management systems in place that detect whether local, national or international laws are being broken. 

Fisheries that are independently certified to the Standard, work to a rigorous framework that ensures the stocks they fish are not under serious pressure from overfishing or IUU activities. Certified fisheries must also undergo regular audits to ensure they are complying with all aspects of the Standard.

The Standard helps fishers improve the quality of data they collect and strengthen the monitoring, control and surveillance of the fishery’s operations.

Research suggests that MSC certification and data obtained from the process are important tools for fishery managers and governments in combatting IUU fishing.

Fishery assessment reports by independent teams are publicly available so seafood buyers can see for themselves what measures are taken by fisheries to address IUU fishing and comply with the Standard.

Fisherman in yellow overalls with net in the air holding freshly caught toothfish
Toothfish fisher by Tony Fitzsimmons

What are legitimate fishers doing about IUU?
There are many examples of how fisheries are driving out IUU fishing, such as the Patagonian toothfish (Chilean seabass) fishery. 

For many years, uncontrolled IUU fishing was contributing to the decline of this high value species. Decisive action by six major toothfish fisheries has virtually eliminated IUU fishing in the Southern Ocean. Today, stocks have recovered, are healthy and MSC data shows over 50% of the world’s catch is certified sustainable against the MSC Fisheries Standard. 

International collaborations continue to improve the sustainability of these fisheries, with the SARPC toothfish fishery now conducting research to ensure skates that interact with the fishery are unharmed when returned to the ocean.
How MSC certified fisheries are improving
How MSC certified fisheries are improving
As well as fishing healthy populations, fisheries must show they are managing their impacts on habitats and other marine species.
How does the MSC help prevent IUU seafood entering the supply chain?
Between the ocean and your plate, fish and seafood products may pass through many stages. The MSC has a Chain of Custody (CoC) Standard with requirements to help prevent IUU seafood entering the legal marketplace. The requirements help identify and separate certified from non-certified seafood in the supply chain.

When you see a product carrying the MSC blue label it means that every company within that supply chain must have a valid Chain of Custody certificate and the goods they supply come from a certified sustainable source and have not been fished using IUU methods.

To achieve and maintain CoC certification, a business must be regularly assessed against the Standard by an independent certification body. These certificates are valid for three years and businesses are subject to surveillance audits to check they are meeting the requirements.
""",
#### Article 9
"""
MOSCOW, January 13. /ITAR-TASS/. Vasily Pashchenko, the captain of the Novoazovsk trawler detained in the Norwegian Sea, has been charged with violation of fish catching rules in the Norwegian economic zone, a source at the Russian Federal Agency for Fisheries (Rosrybolovstvo) told Itar-Tass on Monday. The Nordkapp Norwegian patrol ship detained the Russian trawler while it was fishing in the Norwegian Sea.

The Norwegian side claims that the Novoazovsk threw dead or dying fish overboard. Captain Vasily Pashchenko has said that the ship was arrested because of a minor technical incident: some fish was simply washed away after the safety cage of a drain hole used for dumping water from the deck into the sea had broken, the Russian Federal Agency for Fisheries said.

The Novoazovsk trawler was expected to arrive at the Norwegian port of Troms at 22:00 Moscow time on January 13, 2014. At the moment, the ship continues its voyage, escorted by Norwegian patrol boats. The vessel is undamaged and the crew feels well, the Federal Agency for Fisheries went on to say.

A mid-sized Novoazovsk trawler freezer belongs to the Arkhangelsk Trawler Fleet joint-stock company and is registered at Murmansk port. The crew has 45 members. The ship has food stocks to last for 30 days.
""",
#### Article 10
"""
“The brutality and profit margins in the area of environmental crime are almost unimaginable. Cartels have taken over entire sectors of illegal mining, the timber trade and waste disposal,” according to Sasa Braun, intelligence officer with Interpol’s environmental security program  Braun listed examples. Villages in Peru that had resisted deforestation efforts had been razed to the ground by criminal gangs in retribution, he said, while illegal fishing fleets had thrown crew overboard to avoid having to pay them.

Environmental crime has many faces and includes the illegal wildlife trade, illegal logging, illegal waste disposal and the illegal discharge of pollutants into the atmosphere, water or soil. It is a lucrative business for transnational crime networks. Illegal waste trafficking, for example, accounts for $10 to 12 billion (€10.28 to 12.34 billion) annually, according to 2016 figures from the United Nations Environment Program. Criminal networks save on the costs of proper disposal and obtaining permits. For some crime networks, the profits from waste management are so huge that it has become more interesting than drug trafficking…The profits from illegal logging have also grown…

According to the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (Europol), environmental crime — the third most lucrative area of crime worldwide after drug trafficking and counterfeit goods — generates profits of between $110 billion and $280 billion each year.

Excerpts from Environmental crime: Profit can be higher than drug trade, DW, Oct. 16, 2022
""",
#### Article 11
"""
On 28 December 2017, the Court of First Instance ruled that three fishing vessels titled “Yu Long 125”, “Yu Long 6” and “Hung Chi Fu 68” had violated the Royal Ordinance on Fisheries B.E. 2558 on three charges; (1) failing to comply with the Department of Fisheries’ Notification that all vessels without an overseas fishing license must return to port within the set deadline; (2) undertaking fishing in waters of other states and the high seas without permission; and (3) employing crews without seaman books. The fishing vessel company and its executives were ordered to pay a fine in total of 130,463,000 Thai Baht (approximately over 3.5 million Euros) as well as being sentenced to the maximum of 1 year and 15 months. Moreover, an administrative sanction was also applied, including (1) the confiscation of the fishing gear and aquatic animals aboard the vessels, (2) the detention of the vessels until the case completion, (3) the publication of the names of the vessels used in IUU fishing in accordance with Article 116 of the Royal Ordinance, and (4) the revocation of the vessels’ registration. The Department of Fisheries also proceeded to put the aquatic animals seized from the vessels up for auction.
          Early in 2016 an inter-agency task force led by the Royal Thai Navy intercepted the above three vessels along with the other three vessels, namely Mook Andaman 018, Mook Andaman 028 and Ceribu and has detained them at the Phuket port. These six vessels are tuna trawlers that engaged in illegal fishing in the Indian Ocean. The remaining three vessels are still waiting for the decision of the trial court.
          During the past two years, Thailand has captured and prosecuted 79 cases against overseas vessels, 51 of which have reached the final judgment, accounting for 64 percent of all the cases. Moreover, the Thai authorities have prosecuted another 1,065 cases of Thai and foreign vessels in Thai waters, including 184 foreign vessels illegally fishing in Thai waters. 817 out of the 1,065 cases, or 77 percent, have been concluded.
          In addition, Thailand has implemented administrative sanctions alongside criminal proceedings. To date, the Administrative Sanction Committee has prosecuted 239 cases, including 66 cases of overseas fishing vessels, 103 cases of 30 GT-or-above Thai fishing vessels, and 67 cases of less-than-30 GT Thai fishing vessels. The penalties range from seizing the vessel, confiscating its fishing gear and aquatic animals, revoking its fishing license, and imposing fines which, so far, have totaled more than 43 million Baht (approximately over 1.1 million Euros).
          Thailand has recently introduced a new measure to speed up the trial process by setting up two new special panels of judges within the Criminal Court to solely handle illegal fishing cases, as announced in the Criminal Court’s order on 29 January 2018. These cases will be deemed extraordinary and the court will aim to conclude all cases within six months after the charge accepted. Regarding the request for temporary release of the accused or defendants, due consideration will also be given to the circumstances relating to the alleged offence; whether it involves criminal networks or organizations or influential figures; and the impact of the alleged offence on the aquatic animal resources and environment.  All these efforts reflect the Royal Thai Government’s endeavor to strengthen law enforcement to effectively prevent, deter and eliminate the illegal fishing, as intended in the Royal Ordinance on Fisheries.

""",

####Article 12
"""
Ten Chinese fishing vessels, which sought “emergency shelter” in Ratnagiri in Maharashtra during Cyclone Vayu, are under the Centre’s scanner for allegedly fishing illegally in Indian waters . The investigation into the case began on Monday, and more than 200 crew members on board are being called for questioning to decide the course of action.

According to the Indian authorities, the boats belong to the Fu Yuan Yu fleet, owned by Dongxinglong Ocean Fishing Company Ltd, based in Fu Zhou, Fujian province in China, and had entered the Indian waters on June 7, after taking permission from the Indian Coast Guard. However, on June 9, local fishermen complained that they were involved in fishing activities. “Shelter can’t be denied during cyclone emergencies like Cyclone Vayu. Using this opportunity, the 10 vessels got involved in illegal operations within India’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ) – coastal waters where a country can claim exclusive rights for fishing and other economic activities,” said a senior official from the department of fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. “The matter is being investigated through agencies and the Coast Guard. Deterrent action will be taken against all 10 vessels under violations of the Maritime Zones of India (Regulation) of Fishing by Foreign Vessels Act, 1981."

The Indian Coast Guard said two boats have been brought to the Dabhol creek for further investigation, while the remaining eight vessels are anchored two nautical miles off the coast.

These were the only trawlers fishing, amid the monsoon restriction. Ten vessels can fish around 80,000 tonnes of marine life in a month.

Ganesh B Nakhawa, chairman, National Purse Seine Fishermen Welfare Association, said the boats are equipped with 500,000 KW of LED lights for purse seine, squid jigging and pelagic trawling. “The fleet also has other damaging illegal gear on board such as drifting gill nets, bottom trawl nets and dolphin attracting devices etc. Such vessels are banned worldwide by many fisheries commission and are under investigation of many international agencies,” he said. “The crew hails from Indonesia, Philippines and China. Of the 37 crew members of the two vessels who were questioned, the passports of 19 have expired. These vessels are depleting the Indian EEZ of important fish such as tuna, marlins, squids, mackerels and also causing damage to the ecology by targeting protected marine species such as sharks, turtles and dolphins.” Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, Maharashtra fisheries department, said, “After confirming the Chinese trawlers were carrying out fishing activity in EEZ off the Maharashtra coast, we wrote a detailed letter to the Centre. The Centre further directed all agencies to take action. The fishermen said they had come for shelter, but fishing in EEZ area is illegal for international vessels. We are keeping a close watch on them.”

An Indian Coast Guard official said, “Apart from just fishery related violations, we are investigating the nationality of these fishermen, their documents, proper customs clearance and other suspected threats.”

HT has a copy of letters issued by the Centre and Intelligence Bureau ordering a probe,

Fu Yuan Yu vessels have been named in illegal fishing cases in the past.

According to the illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (IUU) Risk Intelligence, these vessels have been involved in illegal fishing for tuna in the southern Indian Ocean and South African waters in 2016.

“Very little is known about the Chinese company, its ownership, management, movements and activities of the “Fu Yuan Yu” fleet in the high seas,” read a report by IUU Risk Intelligence from May 29, 2016.

Meanwhile, HT found the Chinese company that owns the vessels did not have a website or a functional telephone number listed on international data portals with details of the vessels.
""",
### Article 13
"""
CAIRO (Reuters) -Two ships caught on fire after being hit by projectiles off Yemen's Aden, two UK maritime agencies reported on Sunday.

The British security firm Ambrey said on Sunday an Antigua- and Barbuda-flagged general cargo ship was struck by a missile 83 nautical miles southeast of Aden and caught fire. The fire was later contained.

Earlier, the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said it had received a report from a captain of a vessel of an incident 80 nautical miles southeast of Aden.

"The ship was heading southwest along the Gulf of Aden at a speed of 8.2 knots when the forward station was struck by a missile. A fire started but was neutralised," Ambrey said in an advisory note.

"A second missile was sighted but did not hit the ship. Persons on board small boats in the vicinity opened fire on the ship during the incident."

Ambrey said the ship changed course to port and increased speed, adding that "no injuries were reported."

Separately, Ambrey and UKMTO said they had received a report about another incident 70 nautical miles southwest of Aden.

"The master reports that the vessel was hit by an unknown projectile on the aft section, which resulted in a fire. Damage control is underway," UKMTO said in advisory note.

They added that no casualties were reported and the vessel was proceeding to its next port of call.

The Houthi militia, which controls the most populous parts of Yemen and is aligned with Iran, has attacked ships off its coast for months, saying it is acting in solidarity with Palestinians fighting Israel in Gaza.

Houthi fighters have launched drone and missile attacks in the Bab al-Mandab Strait and Gulf of Aden, forcing shippers since November to take longer and more costly journeys around southern Africa.

The United States and Britain have carried out strikes against Houthi targets in response to the attacks.

(Reporting by Muhammad Al Gebaly; Editing by Cynthia Osterman, Richard Chang and Kim Coghill)
""",
#### Article 14
"""
Waves have swept away vessels supporting the United States-built pier installed to transfer aid to Gaza, the US Central Command (CENTCOM) has said.

In a statement on Saturday, CENTCOM noted that during the transportation of humanitarian aid, the US floating dock was disconnected from the small boat tugging it and the vessels broke free from their moorings with two of them now anchored on the beach near the pier.

Part of the dock later drifted towards Israel’s Ashdod shore, while the third and fourth vessels have beached on the coast of Israel near Ashkelon, CENTCOM added.

No injuries have been reported so far and efforts to recover the vessels are under way with assistance from the Israeli and US navies.

Reporting from Washington DC, Al Jazeera’s Heidi Zhou-Castro said that the Pentagon has stressed that the pier still remained fully functional.

“They [the Department of Defense] emphasised that throughout this operation, no US personnel will enter Gaza,” she added.

The construction of the $320m floating pier was completed in mid-May to provide aid to the Gaza Strip.

The pier has been criticised as a complicated and costly alternative that tries to deflect attention from demanding a much simpler solution – for Israel to fully open all land crossings to Gaza and to secure aid trucks going in.

But in March, US President Joe Biden said in his State of the Union that the pier would “receive large shipments carrying food, water, medicine and temporary shelter”, a move largely seen as an attempt to appease his Democratic Party’s base as he runs for re-election in November.

Meanwhile, on Friday, Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson of UN chief Antonio Guterres, said that the World Food Programme (WFP) has “taken possession of 97 trucks since the floating dock came into operation”.

“After a rocky start, the situation is stabilised,” Dujarric said.

“What we want to see, as we’ve been saying, is massive aid coming in through land routes,” he added.
""",

#### Article 15
"""
Humans catch about 95 million metric tons of fish every year, contributing to the trillion-dollar frenzy of the global fishing industry.

Interestingly, some whale species have also found ways to profit from the fishing business.

It's not the money they're after — but the fish that outwit even the fishermen.

Whales discovered how to catch a free meal
Sperm whales and northern bottlenose whales off the coast of Newfoundland were observed time and again trailing fishing trawlers to catch the fish that escaped fishermen's nets.

But the whales didn't catch just any old fish. They were apparently picky eaters and only followed a vessel when it was fishing for Greenland halibut.

None of the whales that scientists observed pursued a trawler while it was catching redfish, thorny skate, or any other fish other than Greenland halibut. Scientists published their results in the journal PLOS ONE in August.

"The whales have learned to identify the fishing vessels as a source of easier fish to catch, reducing their time for foraging," lead researcher Usua Oyarbide told Insider.

Oyarbide first observed this behavior in 2007 as part of her Master's thesis project. Then five to six years later, she said a fisherman sent her video of one of the same whales still chasing down fish.

This study isn't the first to report whale and fishing boat encounters. Scientists have found similar behavior among at least 17 other whale species in different parts of the world dating as far back as 1997, Oyarbide said.

"It is a behavior that has been reported more and more over the past 20 years or so, in a number of parts of the world." Hal Whitehead, a sperm whale expert and biology professor at Dalhousie University, told Insider. He wasn't involved in Oyarbide's study.

What's even more interesting is that it's not only whales that have learned to catch fish escaping the fishermen's nets.

"As time goes on we hear more and more reports of everything from sperm whales to dolphins doing this. Probably, almost every species of marine mammals that eats fish somehow take advantage every now and then of a free meal," said Andrew Trites, director of the Marine Mammal Research Institute at the University of British Columbia, who also wasn't involved in the study.

Oyarbide further suggests that this behavior may become more common among whales in the future as whales learn socially from each other and can, therefore, pass tips and tricks onto the next generation, and so on.

Is it good for whales to follow fishing boats? No.
Oyarbide said this change in whale behavior may seem beneficial for them at first as it increases their access to prey and reduces foraging time.

But it can also make them more dependent on fish vessels for food, influencing their survival and reproduction. The whales likely began trailing trawlers because the boats overlapped their foraging areas, Oyarbide said.

Overfishing in such areas indirectly threatens the whales by decreasing the availability or altering the size or diversity of their prey. "It is important to understand fisheries' impacts in marine ecosystems," Oyarbide said.

Another issue is the "habitat degradation caused by bottom trawlers can have an indirect, negative impact on marine mammals that depend on those habitats for food," she added.

Instead of searching for food, some whales find it easier to catch prey just by following the trawlers. And that often leads to more risky interactions with vessels or fishing gear, Oyarbide said.

"It is probably bad for the whales in the long run," Whitehead said. "They sometimes get rammed, or shot by angry fishers, and can get caught in the nets. We saw a sperm whale killed by a trawler net close to the area mentioned in the study. They may also lose skills at catching their real food."

Fishing gear entanglement alone causes the death of 300,000 whales, dolphins, and other cetacean mammals every year, according to the International Whaling Commission. And a study published in January suggested this estimate was low.

Moreover, a report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration suggests that females of the endangered North Atlantic right whale species are having fewer births because of stress and injuries from repeated fishing gear entanglements.

Old observations can still teach something new
Though Oyarbide is no longer researching whales and her observations in the study are many years old, Trites said her research is still helping the scientific community as it offers a glimpse at past whaling behavior in Canada that may be compared with data in other parts of the world like Africa, China, and Australia.

"I learned something, which I didn't know before," Trites, who has been studying marine mammals for over 30 years added. "I've known about sperm whales being engaged with different fisheries but I wasn't aware northern Bottlenose whales show similar behavior, so I've learned something new."

"The study tells us how whales can exploit new resources, also, occasionally with really good data, we may get a better understanding of how they learn the new behavior from one another," Whitehead told Insider.

Oyarbide added that her coauthor is using the study's data to better understand bottlenose whale depredation in Canada that may be going underreported.
""",
### Article 16
"""
Fires were reported on two vessels off the coast of Yemen, after being hit by “projectiles”, the UK's Maritime Trade Operations said on Sunday.

The first incident in the Red Sea took place at 8pm Co-ordinated Universal Time, 80 nautical miles south-east of Yemen's interim capital Aden, UKMTO said, after the ship's crew reported a projectile struck the vessel.

“A small fire was contained in the mooring station and now reported extinguished. All crew are reported safe and the vessel is now proceeding to its next port call.”

The Elbella is one of the vessels reportedly struck.

British security firm Ambrey confirmed to Reuters that an Antigua-and Barbuda-flagged cargo ship was struck 83 nautical miles south-east of Aden and caught fire.

“The ship was heading south-west along the Gulf of Aden at a speed of 8.2 knots when the forward station was struck by a missile. A fire started but was neutralised,” Ambrey said.

“A second missile was sighted but did not hit the ship. Persons on board small boats in the vicinity opened fire on the ship during the incident.”

A second incident was reported, 70 nautical miles south-west of Aden three hours after the initial strike. “The vessel was hit by an unknown projectile on the aft section, which resulted in a fire,” UKMTO said.

“Damage control is under way.”

There were no casualties in the attack.

Houthi rebels have begun striking ships in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden since November, in support of Palestinians in Gaza, but have not claimed either attack.

They have repeatedly said they will not stop carrying out strikes on maritime shipping until Israel stops its aggression in Gaza.

The Iran-backed rebel group has been ramping up its activities in the Red Sea and a US-UK coalition has been hitting back, striking areas in Yemen which it claims are being used to fuel the sea attacks.

Most recently, the Houthis blamed the western forces for carrying out air strikes on Hodeidah Airport and the Salif port to the north of the country.
""",
### Article 17
"""
RCMP say a man has died after he was injured aboard a fishing vessel in northeastern Prince Edward Island.

Cpl. Gavin Moore says police received a report shortly before 9 a.m. about a man who was hurt on a fishing boat.

Moore says the man died before the vessel made it to shore in North Lake, on the Island’s northeastern tip.

He could not say when the vessel arrived, nor could he provide more information about the man or how he was injured.

Moore says the Mounties are still investigating and police have reported the death to Transport Canada, occupational health and safety officials, and the coroner’s office.

The Transportation Safety Board of Canada says commercial fishing is one of the most dangerous jobs in the country, with 10 people dying in five incidents involving commercial fishing boats in 2023.

This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 19, 2024.
""",
### Article 18
"""
15th June 2024
The Bluefin tuna season will open tomorrow with a 25-tonne quota with the Department of Environment reviewing a mechanism to regulate the commercial sale of locally caught tuna.

The total allowable catch has remained the same as last year and the quota will be split in two parts.

The first part of the quota has been set at 22 tonnes for the period June 16 to July 25 unless limit is reached beforehand in which case the season will be temporarily closed.

The second part of the quota is set at three tonnes and the open season will recommence on August 6 to October 14, 2024.

A Government spokesman told the Chronicle that regulation regarding the commercial sale of the
prized fish “is still being reviewed by the Department of the Environment together with partner authorities”.

As from Sunday, sports fisherman can catch a tuna a day during open season.

Anglers are reminded that a Class K licence is required to fish for Bluefin tuna.

A dedicated landing station has been set up within the North Mole (No. 1 Jetty).

Anglers are reminded that all tuna and billfish catches must be reported and weighed at the landing point where vessels will be able to dock.

Towing live specimens into the landing station is strictly prohibited and may result in licences being revoked.

The landing point will be manned from 9am to 2.30pm from Monday to Saturday. Any catches landed from 2.30pm to sunset must also be reported and weighed at the landing point by contacting the on-call landing point staff on mobile number: 54020033.

This service will also be operational on Sundays and public holidays.
"""
]



irrelevant_urls = [ 
    'https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/technology/dolphins-spotted-using-shipping-vessels-in-charleston-harbor-to-catch-prey/ar-AA1nIFpW',
    'https://weareaquaculture.com/news/fisheries/limitations-on-the-snow-crab-catch-new-condition-for-norwegian-vessels',
    'https://www.unodc.org/roseap/en/indonesia/2024/02/fisheries-crime/story.html',
    'https://www.verywellhealth.com/what-causes-broken-blood-vessels-in-the-eye-8651771',
    'https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.aaz3801',
    'https://ejfoundation.org/news-media/new-rules-tighten-controls-on-eu-vessels-to-prevent-misreporting',
    'https://www.washington.edu/news/2016/09/27/missing-fish-catch-data-not-necessarily-a-problem-new-study-says/',
    'https://www.msc.org/what-we-are-doing/oceans-at-risk/illegal-unreported-unregulated-iuu-destructive-fishing',
    'https://tass.com/world/714426',
    'https://law-in-action.com/tag/illegal-fishing/',
    'https://budapest.thaiembassy.org/en/content/88299-thai-court-has-fined-three-overseas-fishing-vessels-for-over-130-million-baht-on-illegal-fishing-charges?cate=5f205f5b0b09246d9a00a7ce',
    'https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-troubled-waters-10-chinese-vessels-found-fishing-illegally-in-maharashtra/story-FigOPCnmT3o0xuSDeqFjvN.html',
    'https://ca.news.yahoo.com/ambrey-says-cargo-ship-hit-230251216.html',
    'https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2024/5/25/vessels-supporting-us-built-gaza-aid-pier-washes-away',
    'https://www.businessinsider.in/science/news/whales-swimming-behind-fishing-vessels-catch-an-easy-feast-of-escaped-fish-but-experts-warn-this-free-meal-is-risky-potentially-lethal-behavior/articleshow/103327327.cms',
    'https://www.thenationalnews.com/news/mena/2024/06/09/two-vessels-catch-fire-in-the-gulf-of-aden-after-unknown-projectiles-strike/',
    'https://www.thestar.com/news/canada/man-dies-after-injury-aboard-fishing-vessel-in-northeastern-p-e-i-police-say/article_a05a82dd-02f9-53b5-a806-1680201928c6.html',
    'https://www.chronicle.gi/bluefin-tuna-season-to-open-tomorrow-with-25t-quota/'
]


print("there are", len(irrelevant_articles), "articles in irrelevant_articles.")