articles = [
### article 6
"""
A first glimpse of data from cameras on board commercial fishing boats has revealed what conservationists have long suspected: that deaths of ocean wildlife in nets and lines have been significantly under-reported. Andrea Vance reports.

Seven years after it was first announced as a way to revolutionise industrial fishing in the wake of a fish-dumping scandal and the accidental killing of thousands of seabirds, dolphins and sea lions, the Ministry for Primary Industries has published its first observations on footage captured from more than 100 vessels.

Ocean conservationists said the new data proved that for decades vessels had been under-reporting what and how much they were catching. They argue that armed with a more accurate picture of the impact the industry has on fish populations and protected species, the Government should be taking a more cautious approach when setting regulations and catch limits.

That’s not likely to happen under Oceans and Fisheries Minister Shane Jones, a proclaimed champion of the marine economy. In a move that is only likely to rile environmental advocates, he has instead asked officials to look at ways to hand back control of the footage to industry.

Since the high-definition cameras were introduced last year, there has been a nearly seven-fold increase in the number of dolphins reported caught in nets.

Albatross interactions were up by 3.5 times what was previously reported. ‘Interactions’ is a catch-all term to include accidental capture or hooking of a bird when it dives for bait, hitting a line, or even landing on deck to snatch offal or bait.

Almost all interactions are regarded as adverse because they result in injury or lead to seabirds being attracted to vessels.

The data also showed an astonishing rise — of 46% — in the volume of reported discards. That’s unwanted fish thrown overboard because it is undersized or not valuable.

Currently, crew can legally return quota species to the ocean, but most fish returned to the sea don't survive. New rules, in force from 2026, means they will have to bring almost everything they catch back to port.

The fishing industry said the surveillance technology had simply made fishers “more vigilant”, and said there was enough contingency built into the fisheries management system to account for the inconsistency.

Separately, quarterly reporting data published by MPI last week showed six endangered Hector’s dolphins died in trawl nets in the first three months of this year.

Eyes and ears of the ocean
As of April 1, cameras are operational on 127 of 255 (or 50%) of vessels working in three areas. They went live in 38 vessels in the West Coast North Island trawl and set-net area — home to the world’s 50-or-so remaining Māui dolphins — last August.

In the South Island trawl and set-net area — key habitat for hoiho, one of the world’s rarest penguin species, and endangered Hector’s dolphins — cameras were switched on aboard 67 vessels from October.

And 22 surface longline vessels followed, across the country, in mid-January.

Footage has been provided to MPI division Fisheries NZ from 105 of those craft, showing 11,000 hours. Using random sampling, officials reviewed 3,733 fishing events.

But they’ve also used the camera roll-out to analyse reporting behaviour, which showed a significant jump in the number of incidents, as well as catch, and discarding.

“These are pretty stark figures, but they do reinforce what we have suspected all along: that fisheries by-catch is being under-reported by industry, and that we do not have an accurate picture of the threats that commercial fishing poses to our threatened species,” WWF New Zealand chief executive Dr Kayla Kingdon-Bebb said.

“That is significant. In part for the diminishing social licence of the commercial fleet for unsustainable fishing methods. But also because a lot of our fisheries management decisions in New Zealand are based on reporting.”

One such decision is the outcome of a review of regulations put in place in 2019 to protect seabirds, of which around 90% are threatened with extinction.

Commercial fishers using surface longline in domestic waters are required by law to either fit hook-shielding devices to their lines, or adopt two out of three mitigation methods. Those include bird-scaring lines (called tori lines), weighting lines or setting lines at night.

Conservation groups, including WWF NZ, Forest & Bird and Greenpeace, want to see all three methods deployed at all times.

Last year, in a briefing paper prepared for the previous government, Fisheries NZ officials were leaning towards a ‘spacial’ approach, whereby all three methods be required but only at certain times of the year, or in certain fisheries.

However, that advice was prepared before cameras went live, without the updated reporting data.

Forest & Bird strategic advisor Geoff Keey said the agency should now re-evaluate its opinion.

“The integrity of the fisheries management system really is based on the integrity of the logbooks. So if what the fishers are reporting is not what's happening on the water then that messes with the integrity of the entire fisheries system.

“Accurate reporting is essential for managing the risk to seabirds and marine mammals.”

The discrepancy also throws into question how officials calculate total allowable catch, Keey said. That’s the total quantity of each fish stock that is allowed to be caught (commercially or by recreational or customary Māori fishers), usually over a year, to ensure stocks remain sustainable.

“One of the things that MPI has to do when setting the allowable catch is to try and give an estimate of how much of the fish is actually being thrown overboard. And what we're seeing is a 46% jump in the amount of fish reported as thrown overboard.

“That difference is really important for working out how much is allowed to be caught.”

Ellie Hooper, oceans campaigner at Greenpeace Aotearoa, said the new data proved it was worth the protracted, seven-year fight to implement the camera programme.

Former National Party minister Nathan Guy announced the roll-out in July 2017. But under the incoming Labour Government, the scheme was delayed several times because of opposition from NZ First.

The roll-out got back on track when Moana, Sanford and Sealord, the biggest seafood producers, broke ranks with the rest of the industry and declared support.

The first phase – on 32 vessels in the Māui dolphin habitat – was due to be finished by the end of November 2022, but then delayed by technical hiccups.

Hooper says the troubled scheme should be expanded to the deepwater fleet, which accounts for about 75% of the catch from wild capture fisheries.

The previous government committed $68 million to fit up to 300 inshore vessels with the cameras by next year.

“It really irritates me that we hear a lot of talk from the regulator and the commercial fishing industry about ecosystem-based management and informed decision-making. Well, you can't make informed decisions if you don't have the information.

“We can't have this much of an impact on the ocean ecosystem and then expect it for it to endlessly keep providing.

”Cameras are a really clear way for us to verify how much fish is caught, what was discarded, and what protected [species] were killed. You need that information because otherwise you're making decisions blindly.

“Unfortunately, it serves the commercial fishing industry to make those decisions blind, but it's not going to work going forward.”

Hooper might be wrong about that. Jones, who was opposed to the camera rollout, is unsympathetic to the concerns of “green politburo banshees”.

He has asked officials to examine whether the FishServe model can be expanded to the camera programme.

FishServe is an administrative company, owned by lobby group Seafood NZ, which collects data from fishers about the accidental capture of protected species, and checks catch reports and quota compliance on behalf of MPI.

Environmental NGOs have long argued this is regulatory capture — and that in order to prosecute fishing companies for law breaches, MPI has to rely on data collected and provided by a company owned by the industry.

However, successive governments have argued there is no conflict of interest in the outsourcing.

Jones said he had asked officials to do a “deep dive”, and pledged to consult with the public on any changes.

“I want to see whether options such as the highly successful FishServe model can be extended to the camera initiative. This is an example of the devolution of services under the Fisheries Act. The camera data must be seen as a sustainability tool, not purely as a compliance bludgeon.

“I accept though there is a problem with trust in the broader stakeholder community of fisheries. This will need to be addressed.”

Jones was particularly concerned about privacy in what was essentially government surveillance of a workplace - a concern shared by the industry.

“We have long supported greater transparency,” said Seafood NZ chief executive Jeremy Helson. “What we don’t want is to compromise fishers’ individual privacy or create a huge cost burden for the industry.

“We are keen on exploring intelligent camera systems and AI technology. Cameras can and should be used for more than just enforcement, we would like to see them helping with other aspects of fisheries management and data collection, so we can feel even more confident about our fisheries.”

The seafood industry netted record profits last year, pulling in $2.08 billion of revenue, up 8% on 2022. Officials told Jones in a recent briefing that around $5m a year (about half) could be recovered from industry towards programme costs.

Helson said deepwater operators would prefer a “robust” observer programme, where officials watch and record what is happening on board vessels.

“Observers can move around and see every aspect of operations on a vessel,” he said. “As well as monitoring the catch they are also responsible for collecting biological data, taking samples from fish, and other scientific work that helps make the fishery more sustainable. This type of work cannot be carried out by cameras.”

Helson said the data reported so far “is within what current models estimate, so these increases do not necessarily represent greater sustainability concerns”.

He added: “There may be some year-on-year fluctuations to consider here, but what we think cameras are doing is causing all fishers to be more vigilant about their numbers. This is a good thing.

“The regulator manages our fisheries using mathematical models built by scientists which produce estimated interaction numbers for protected species. These models allow for inconsistencies in reporting. These models scale up data from MPI observers, so they are representative of the full fishing fleet.”

The new numbers will further strengthen modelling and management of fisheries, he added.

Helson said consumers would welcome greater transparency. “We see this as a fresh start with everyone on the same page. It is a good thing to have increased transparency.”

He also said discard data needed careful interpretation. “Fishers are allowed or in some cases required by law to discard (maybe because the fish are small and need to be back in the sea or for some other reason required by law).

“This is not unlawful behaviour and in some cases discarding has to happen to comply with the law.”

Fisheries New Zealand deputy director general Dan Bolger said the increase of reporting was expected and in line with other countries.

“In developing fisheries management settings, Fisheries New Zealand collects a wide range of information from fishers, fisheries observers, on-board cameras, licensed fish receivers as well as peer-reviewed scientific modelling,” he said.

“The modelling takes into account multiple factors, including environmental changes and natural fluctuations in abundance. It does not rely on fisher-reported information about marine mammal interactions.”

Bolger said he remained confident in data collected by observers, through independent surveys, and peer-reviewed scientific modelling, and analyses, prior to the rollout of cameras.

“We welcome the information we are receiving through the camera programme. It has enriched our view of what is happening on the water. Verified fisher reporting and insights from cameras are expected to strengthen the information available to support management of harvested fish stocks and the effects of fishing on the environment.

“The programme is in its early stages and we will continue to recommend changes to fisheries management settings where it is supported by the weight of evidence.”

‘Significant interaction events’ are reported by MPI outside the normal cycle. They revealed that between January and March, six Hector’s dolphins, and one yellowed-eyed penguin, were snared in nets off Timaru and Banks Peninsula.

One bottom trawler caught two of the dolphin in one haul. Another killed nine birds in one go - eight sooty shearwater and a Foveaux shag. A purse seine vessel, which usually targets tuna or mackerel, captured six spine-tailed devil rays, of which only two survived.
""",

###article 12
"""
Abstract
This study provides a global assessment of the linkages between observed fisheries-related offenses across the world’s oceans between 2000 and 2020. We analyze data from the largest existing repository with 6853 events reporting offenses across 18 fishing-related categories, including illegal fishing, human rights abuses, and smuggling. We find that at least 33% of all recorded offenses are associated with 450 industrial vessels and 20 companies originating from China, the EU, and tax haven jurisdictions. We observe links between various types of offenses for 779 vessels, with such “transversal criminality” involving 2000 offenses and crimes globally. This study demonstrates the ability to identify offenders and patterns of behaviors threatening fisheries sustainability at a global level and countries most vulnerable to transversal criminality. In light of concerns for widespread underreporting and impunity, we call for greater information sharing, interagency cooperation, and stringent enforcement to bring to account major offenders.
Introduction
Illegal fishing is ubiquitous across the world (1), threatening fisheries sustainability and inflicting high costs on the environment and society through declines in fish population, ecosystem degradation, revenue losses, and food insecurity (2, 3). Motivated by high demand for seafood, profit-seeking, and fewer fishes (4), illegal fishing accounts for nearly 11 to 26 million tonnes representing a quarter of the US$120 billion global landed value of fisheries (1, 5). As a transnational and organized activity (6, 7), illegal fishing potentially lends itself to labor and human rights abuses, as well as the trafficking of drugs, migrants, weapons, and wildlife (8), particularly in poorly regulated spaces (4, 9). This paper is the first global analysis connecting multiple types of offenses across the fishing industry in the world’s oceans, using a sample of 6853 reported offenses linked to fishing vessels and fishing companies across 18 different offense subcategories falling within three main categories (“fishing offenses,” “fraud and diversion offenses,” and “other personal and property offenses”; see Table 1).
International attention over maritime offenses have sharply increased over the past 15 years as a result of growing evidence of the role of illegal fishing in collapsing fish populations (10), mobilization against piracy off the coast of Somalia (11), and greater exposure of slavery at sea (12). Resolutions by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly and the UN Security Council, as well as reports by the Interpol Fisheries Crime Working Group, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), and research institutions (3, 13), have pointed at transversal criminality issues relating to the fishing sector, the concept of transversality embodying the implicit behavior through which different categories of crimes co-occur in a single event, including fisheries offenses, human rights abuses, and various forms of trafficking and fraudulent practices enabling illegal fishing. These practices include document forgery, money laundering (14), forced labor, tax fraud, and the use of flags of convenience and tax and regulatory havens (15, 16). Operationally, vessels evade detection and reporting of illegal activities through failing to declare their presence and activities; turning off vessel monitoring systems, radars, and lights; transshipping catch and provisioning at sea; catch misreporting; and fish mislabeling (17, 18). Evasion also frequently includes threats and abuses against official fisheries observers, even cases of murders at sea, with observers lacking adequate protection measures and with abuses being frequently underreported by their own agencies for the sake of protecting vested interests associated with illegal fishing (19). Even when offenses are detected and denounced by mandated agencies, vessel apprehension and accountability are often undermined by bribing and pressure on local authorities, complex corporate ownership networks, multiple jurisdictional layers between vessels and companies, and the acquisition of asset nominees, along with common changes in vessel color, name, and flag state jeopardizing the identification of beneficial owners (16, 20, 21). When enforcement becomes more effective, vessels tend to shift their operations to alternative areas or seek to flaunt regulations, for example, through flagging their vessel and re-registering it or the company as a “domestic” venture rather than a foreign one to maintain access to domestic waters (22) or reflagging to a state with lax regulations (23).
Criminality research has focused in the past decade on the concept of crime linkages in investigative contexts of crimes such as sexual assault, burglary, and others, illustrating that accurate crime linkages can help enforcement and surveillance agencies allocate the proper resources to monitor a sector, deter crime, and save lives (24). Understanding and documenting the likelihood of co-occurrence of crimes can lead to a better conceptualization of temporal, geographic, and behavioral patterns that can lead to better detection and deterrence of crimes. The concept of transversal criminality has broader policy and practical implications on other sectors. For example, similar behavioral analysis could be used to underpin situations in which illegal logging is linked to corruption and fraud, which are prevalent in some geographic contexts (25–27). In the mining sector, the concept of transversal criminality, and its drivers such as profit generation and reduction of costs, can lead to a better understanding of the link between child labor, illegal mining, and pollution (28).
International concerns over offenses related to fisheries have increased over the past two decades to a point that the U.S. Coast Guard called illegal fishing “a threat to national security” (29), with multinational efforts seeking to curb down illegal fishing, piracy, and drug trafficking. Many of these offenses have transnational and cross-sectoral dimensions (30, 31). However, regulatory efforts targeting illegal fishing still mostly seek to detect and prosecute fisheries management offenses through vessel monitoring, control, and surveillance (MCS) and often disregard other types of offenses committed onboard fishing vessels or by fishing companies that are criminal and should be prosecuted as such (7, 9, 32). In parallel, growing human and drug trafficking interdiction efforts on land and through airports have incentivized criminal logistics networks to turn to the maritime sector, including fishing, as a risk-reducing approach to carry out illicit activities (33, 34), with some small-scale fishers being enrolled in illicit drug trade or their boats being bought, stolen, or hijacked by drug smuggling cartels (7, 35).
Few studies have so far systematically conceptualized or empirically verified these links. Some studies have categorized offenses (36–38) and investigated their connections through individual or regional case studies (39, 40). A detailed analysis of illegal fishing vessels caught in Indonesian waters concluded that “Illegal Unregulated and Unreported (IUU) fishing provides the ideal (illegal) environment for fisheries crimes and other forms of transnational organized crimes to flourish” and noted that other offenses include “document forgery; forced labor and abuse; and fisheries violations,” all contributing to the “inner workings of the illegal fishing industry” (41). However, there is no global and systematic identification and estimation of connections between different types of offenses per vessel and fishing company. Previous studies have used the Combined IUU Vessel List (n = 312 vessels) (16) and the Criminal Record of Fishing Vessels (CRFV) (15) to analyze various diversion strategies used by fishing vessels to escape detection by looking into the use of tax havens and flags of convenience, among other strategies. However, analyses of co-occurrences of various types of offenses (i.e., cocriminality or transversal criminality) in the fishing sector remain largely speculative and based on anecdotal evidence [e.g., (7)]. Such lack of combined conceptual clarity and evidence has, in turn, undermined the relevance and effectiveness of policy responses, with interventions more likely to be sector-focused and one-dimensional, and could result in the criminalization of the more visible closer-to-shore sector, that is, the artisanal sector, or the criminalization of the crews who may have been exposed to forced labor and human trafficking (42).
This study constitutes the first attempt at addressing this research gap at a global level and drawing some inferences in terms of policy recommendations and further research needs. Our study uses the CRFV, which is global in scope and draws from multiple types of sources (see Table 4 and table S5). The CRFV data, however, cannot be assumed to be fully representative of the universe of offenses committed but not detected and reported. Numerous jurisdictions still lack adequate MCS, and even when fisheries observers or other agencies identify offenses, many are not publicly reported and acted upon (see Discussion). Hence, our results provide a first and limited assessment of trends, patterns, and determinants of the co-occurrence of fisheries-related offenses and major offenders in the world’s oceans.
RESULTS
We base our analysis on the CRFV database record of observed, interdicted, or absconded events (“incidents”), each of which includes one or several associated fraudulent or illegal activity (“offenses”), which took place between 2000 and June 2020 inclusive (thereafter “2020”). Incidents (n = 6853) and associated offenses (n = 7962) involving known fishing vessels (n = 2034), unknown fishing vessels (4019), and fishing companies/individuals not overlapping with the previous vessels (n = 1050) were compiled from four main sources: government reports (19%; e.g., Coast Guards and fishery observers), third-party reports (75%) (e.g., Greenpeace and media), automatic identification system (AIS) track overlap analysis (5%) (e.g., Global Fishing Watch), and confidential informants (0.3%; e.g., MCS staff in various countries; see Methods). Reports were identified in eight languages (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Spanish, Indonesian, Italian, and Portuguese) to reduce an English-bias effect. We emphasize the limitations affecting the identification, reporting, and prosecuting of offenses, such as a lack of MCS capacity, confidentiality rules about disclosure (e.g., public reporting only after successful prosecution), and subjective decisions on the part of enforcement agencies including as a result of threats (e.g., against fisheries observers), conflicts of interests (e.g., shareholding in company by local officials), or outright bribery. There can be great diversity of reporting level within a government or even specific institutions. For example, in the United States, some National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration programs turn everything over to enforcement, while others make a judgment call at debriefing, with company information being often kept confidential, except when cases are finally (though rarely) successfully prosecuted. This study thus provides a preliminary and partial assessment, as the CRFV database is not a random sample but a repository of empirically verified account of existing and accessible records at the global level. We tested the correlation between the level of reporting and the occurrence and origin of intensity of offenses lumped together and found no correlation (see table S6), which further highlights that the presence of observers does not necessarily increase crime detection. We conducted a regression analysis to see if individual categories acted differently and affected underreporting practices and found significant correlations between underreporting and fraud/forgery and fishing-related offenses (IUU) (see table S7), indicating a link between low ability to monitor catches with fraud and forgery and fisheries violations. This can be explained by the fact that fisheries observers and their agencies, with the exception of those that fall under regional fisheries management organization (RFMO) jurisdiction for particular fisheries, do not often report maritime crimes and illegal fishing because of constraints such as a restriction of their role to scientific fisheries monitoring, threats of violence by the fishing crew or the company, and, in some cases, bribery or pressures from the industry and high-level officials (18, 19, 43).
Fisheries-related offenses in time and space
The CRFV covers the period between 2000 and 2020, but reporting rates are expected to have increased over that period, partly because of more accessible data from government and greater media interest. While the rising trend of reported incidents over the 2010–2019 period (Fig. 1) is likely exaggerated by increasing reporting, reports (9) indicate an increasing trend in illegal fishing within particular regions such as West Africa and increasing drug trade globally within the fishing sector (35). The geographic distribution of all fisheries-related offenses recorded in the CRFV for the 2000–2020 period, assuming that coverage was similar geographically, shows a wide distribution globally (Fig. 2), with hot spots in East Asia (especially Japan, China, and South Korea) accounting for 41% of all reported incidents, West Africa with 16% of all incidents, and Southeast Asia with 8% of all incidents, with still extensive reporting of incidents in Western Europe (5%). Considering only the industrial sector, West Africa is reported to be a major hot spot for illegal fishing and associated crimes with 27% of all incidents, followed by countries from Southeast Asia (8%) and those of Western Europe (7%). Removing incidents reported through AIS track analysis, which mainly covered West and East Africa, reduces the West Africa share of worldwide offenses linked to the industrial sector to 6%, suggesting that at least 21% of potential offenses for the industrial sector are not resulting from government or other reporting.
Analysis of offenses types and fishing sectors
Our analysis reveals that the most common offense remains fishing without a license or permit, with 48% of all offenses, and other fishing offenses (31%) including gear, season- and zone-related, underreporting, and quota-related offenses, followed by human rights and labor abuse (11%); transshipment (3%); and smuggling of drugs, arms, and other goods and products (4%). Among offenses for which the sector was disclosed (n = 7166 or 90% of all offenses and n = 5482 or 80% of all incidents), the artisanal sector ranks first in terms of occurrence with 56% of offenses, followed by the industrial sector with 44% (Fig. 3). The industrial sector, however, ranks first in terms of diversity of co-committed offenses (i.e., diversity of nodes) and is dominated by unauthorized fishing offenses (30%) and other fishing offenses (39%), followed by human rights and labor abuse (13%), fish transshipment offenses (8%), forgery and fraud (4%), and smuggling (3%), among other offenses (Fig. 4). The industrial sector also accounted for 91% (n = 789) of the 1300 non–fishing-related offenses identified by sector. Over 90% of all offenses in the artisanal sector are for unauthorized fishing (Fig. 5), dominated notably (74%) by a high number of North Korean small-scale vessel incursions into the Sea of Japan and small-scale Vietnamese vessels into various countries’ exclusive economic zones (EEZs) in South East Asia. Smuggling, forgery, and fraud constitute less than 3% of all offenses in the artisanal sector.

Fig. 3. Contribution to fisheries-related offenses by category and sector (top) and by gear/species (bottom), 2000–2020.
Data extracted from the CRFV. This figure gathers all unauthorized fishing offenses into one category labeled “other illegal fishing,” which are often considered a matter of regulation and not a crime, such as fishing with a prohibited gear (see Table 1). All offenses associated with a high uncertainty score of 3 to 4 were removed from gear analysis, as their gear type was not known or documented (see Methods).

Fig. 4. Number and typology of offense node combinations by fishing sector.
The category “unknown” documents vessels for which the sector could not be determined. IF refers to “illegal fishing offenses” and includes unauthorized fishing and other fishing offenses as shown in Table 1. Data extracted from the CRFV for 2000–2020. Company and individual offenses represent only those companies or individual for which offenses are not linked to vessels listed through, e.g., ownership.
The influence of fisheries types, by species or by gear, could only be assessed for 1472 of 6853 incidents. Of those incidents, demersal and shrimp trawlers account for 40% of all counts, followed by tuna vessels with 35% of all counts, reefers with 15%, small pelagic fishing vessels with 6%, and cephalopod trawlers and squid jiggers with 4%. These results are clearly biased toward demersal trawlers, whose illegal activities often occur within the continental shelf area of coastal countries and are hence closer to shore and easier to be caught fishing illegally. Demersal trawlers are more likely to fish within prohibited zones (i.e., those areas close to shore where demersal species are mostly found), with 21% of all offense types and 22% unauthorized fishing. Reported offenses relating to the catch and level of fishing effort are mostly occurring (70%) within demersal fisheries (Fig. 3).

Fig. 5. Typology of fisheries offense nodes in the fishing sector between 2000 and 2020 for fishing vessels.
The further a flow goes, the higher the interlinkage score, meaning multiple offenses co-occurred in that single incident. Data were extracted from the CRFV. Each black bar is labeled with the corresponding offense category (except for the first bar from the left relating to the fisheries sectors); the colored flow after each bar documents the category of that bar. The red shades represent illegal fishing labeled IF and unauthorized offenses; green shades represent transshipment offenses, and purple shades represent human rights and labor abuse offenses. If a red shade (IF) is followed by a purple shade (human rights and labor abuse), it means that those two offenses were found in a similar incident.
Tuna vessels, often active much further from shore and therefore more difficult to observe, are more likely to fish without an authorization (with 25% of all their offenses being unauthorized fishing) and more likely to engage in human rights and labor abuse, with 16% of all their offenses, which corroborate disputed findings from (42), but see (43). Human rights and labor abuse by tuna vessels constitute 42% of all human rights and labor abuse instances captured by the database. Most (95%) of the information comes from third-party reports, and the rest comes from government reports. Tuna vessels are also the most likely to engage in illegal reflagging, as they alone take on 75% of all illegal reflagging activities, commit fraud with 42% of all fraud-related offenses, and catch prohibited species with 73% of all species and bycatch-related offenses (many of which have to do with shark finning, as a major by-activity of tuna fisheries, globally).
Transversal criminality analysis
Of the 6853 incidents recorded, 6003 incidents (88%) involved fishing vessels caught for a single type of offense: 4954 for one illegal fishing; 523 for human rights or labor abuse; 309 for smuggling of illicit drugs, arms, or other products; 140 for illegal transshipment; 66 for illegal diversion including noncompliance strategies, forgery, or the illegal use of flags; 12 for violent attacks; and 5 for waste dumping. The remaining 772 cases of incidents (11%) included at least two types of offenses. Nodes identified from incident reports involved different types of illegal fishing categories (36% of all existing nodes), co-occurrences of illegal fishing, and human rights abuses (38% of all existing nodes) or labor abuses (4% of all existing nodes). This supports the literature finding strong links between illegal fishing and human rights and labor abuse (44). Illegal fishing is linked to other non–fishing-related offenses in 57% of the cases with two or more offenses. Illegal fishing events occur concurrently with nonfishing types of offenses in 12% of incidents involving industrial fishing vessels, compared to 2% for artisanal vessels.
Interactions with labor abuses and slavery at sea
Human rights abuses consist of the nonobservance of human rights, as established through the UN Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Forced labor is recognized as a type of modern slavery, embedded within a current human rights crisis. According to the International Labor Organization, forced labor consists of “all work or service which is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for which the said person has not offered himself voluntarily” (45). Labor abuses relate to abuses concerning labor rights and regulations and include all forms of violence, penalty, excessive overtime, threats, confiscation of documents, sequestration, and other forms of abuse such as unsafe work conditions. Human rights abuses are linked to some IUU activities through the drive to maximize profit and minimize costs. Several studies have linked illegal fishing to labor abuses including slavery (40, 41, 46). The hypothesis is that illegal fishing occurs to maximize benefits, and slavery or slave labor is often driven by the incentive of lowering costs in countries where the monitoring of these activities is often limited. Our analysis shows that these cases are notably reported for slavery aboard occurring in the territorial waters and EEZ of Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Somalia, South Africa, and Thailand with over 291 cases globally where illegal fishing was linked to forced labor. All of these cases occurred on industrial vessels and by their crewing companies involving either companies or individual recruiters.
Interactions with smuggling (drug trafficking, weapons trade, and other goods)
UNODC have linked illegal fishing to smuggling (7), including drug trafficking (35, 47). Our analysis points to 12 co-occurrences, with three main hot spots for drug smuggling, as 23% of all smuggling-related offenses occurred in Latin America and the Caribbean (west of FAO area 31), 23% in the Mediterranean Sea [Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) area 37], and 15% in the Arabian Sea and Western Indian Ocean (FAO area 51). We note that co-occurrences could be low, as fishers may get involved in both illegal fishing and smuggling but not simultaneously (e.g., some Iranian dhows deliver illicit drugs in East Africa and fish illegally on their way back), MCS may lack the capacity to tackle two different types of offenses (e.g., narcotics detection), narcotrafficking organizations may use or recruit “clean vessels” not involved in fisheries-related offenses to avoid suspicion, and fishers trafficking drugs may not illegally fish or avoid it to reduce the risk of getting caught (35). Over 60% of all smuggling offenses were by the artisanal sector, 23% by the industrial sector, and the sector for the remaining cases could not be identified.
Interactions with piracy and violent attacks
Illegal fishing has been linked with piracy but generally in the sense of piracy being the result of illegal fishing (48, 49) and possibly reducing illegal (but also legal) fishing through deterrence (50) rather than illegal fishing vessels also getting involved in piracy and robbery at sea (including vessel hijacking, kidnapping of crew, and theft). There is some evidence of opportunistic piracy undertaken by illegal fishing vessels operated by “polycriminal” entrepreneurs (51), especially as vessels involved in both fishing and piracy extend their range and operate in foreign EEZs without authorization (52). Violent attacks besides piracy are more widely documented and take on different forms (53), including attacks to drive out competing fishing vessels (54) and attacks on enforcement organizations including threats and suspicious disappearances and deaths of fisheries observers (55). Our analysis of attacks involving at least two vessels (one attacker and one attacked) are mostly found off the coast of East Africa (FAO area 51; 25%), the Gulf of Guinea (FAO area 34; 25%), East and South East Asia (FAO area 71; 25%), South Mediterranean (17%), and Western Europe (8%; FAO area 37). The majority of violent attacks occurred by industrial vessels (83%).
Observer threats, harassment, interference, and assault
Also part of violent attacks is an ill reported category (56). Assault is defined by the International Observer Bill of Rights (IOBR) as any physical or verbal attack and any form of threat to do bodily harm or sexual violence (rape) or attempt to destroy personal or professional property of the observer. The IOBR defines harassment as all activities (including verbal communication) that “creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment, with or without the intention of interfering with the observer’s duties.” This also includes sexual harassment as defined in (57) and more subtle forms of harassment. Interfering with observer’s duties includes all physical or nonphysical manipulation that affects the ability of the observer to conduct their duties. We note that this category is difficult to quantify given that many, if not most, observer disappearances and deaths have not been investigated properly and are hence often decriminalized with no further actions.
Interactions with pollution and other environmental offenses
Illegal fishing contributes to environmental degradation in the ocean mostly through overfishing and harmful fishing practices, including the use of prohibited gear, as well as “abandoned, lost or otherwise discarded fishing gear” (58). No global study has specifically pointed at the role of illegal fishing in ocean pollution, but considering that illegal fishing accounts for 10% of fishing activities, it could amount to 4.5% of macroplastics at sea (59). The CRFV does not record plastic pollution by fishing vessels, mainly because this form of pollution is not necessarily punishable by law or sanctioned, but waste dumping occurs, including the discharging of oily waste and illegal sewage (six incidents recorded). Two-thirds of the cases were committed by the industrial sector, and the remaining were committed by unknown sectors.
Human rights and labor abuse offenses score 1.6 in terms of linkages (meaning that vessels reported for these offenses have, on average, 1.6 categories of offenses). Human rights and labor abuse co-occur commonly with transshipment offenses, illegal fishing offenses, and illegal diversion offenses such as violent attacks and noncompliance offenses. Offenses related to vessels trying to evade sanctioning or interception, such as noncompliance, name or identity masking, forgery or fraud, bribery, and corruption, occur only 3% of the time; however, they have a linkage score of 2.2 to 2.4. This is not unexpected given that these types of offenses are committed to evade sanctioning for the occurrence of another offense. Overall, nearly half of the vessels caught with an offense of human rights and labor abuse have committed another offense, typically illegal fishing (86% of the links) and transshipment (16% of the links), and are also linked to forgery, fraud, smuggling of goods and products, and waste dumping.
Only 12% of the vessels listed on CRFV with illegal fishing offenses have links to other offenses, and 39% of these links are to other fisheries-related illegal fishing offenses, 34% to human rights and labor abuse, and 4% to transshipment offenses. Over 97% of smuggling offenses are not linked to any other reported offense, which confirms the conclusions reached by Belhabib et al. (35). Transshipment offenses are linked to other offenses in 42% of the cases. Transshipment offenses commonly involve reefer vessels; hence, in 65% of the cases, they do not co-occur with other illegal fishing–related offenses. However, we find here that in 25% of the cases, illegal transshipment is linked to human rights and labor abuse offenses, including through keeping workers longer at sea and preventing them from escaping poor working conditions and/or filing complaints when reaching nearshore or harbors (60–63). Nearly 20% of transshipment offenses were linked to illegal fishing offenses, by accepting or transshipping illegally caught fish. In 7% of the cases, transshipment offenses occur alongside both illegal fishing and human rights or labor abuses at sea.
Risk factors associated with transversal criminality
Having identified the co-occurrence of different types of offenses, we performed a statistical analysis to determine the influence of country characteristics on transversal criminality. The regression model predicts node occurrences, with an adjusted R2 of 0.85. Government effectiveness is correlated negatively with offense intensity (i.e., the number of times cocriminality occurred), reducing offense intensity by 0.1% per unit (P = 4.739 × 10−5). The higher the corruption and the unemployment rate, the higher the intensity of offenses. Offense intensity within a given EEZ is positively correlated with unemployment and corruption and negatively correlated with government effectiveness. Overall, the model indicates that some types of offenses are more likely to be associated with an increase in criminal behavior. For example, an increase in one unit of bribery/corruption results in a 1.6 increase in average offense intensity, something generally explained by the frequent use of bribes to facilitate criminal practices when there are sanctions, although we note that the offense intensity is probably much higher since nonreported bribe payments are likely to hide nonreported offenses (see Table 4). Hence, corruption seems to have a multiplier effect, whereby it either enables or motivates more offenses to be committed (e.g., expectation of only having to pay a relatively small bribe for an offense induces captains and companies to increase still profitable offenses).This multiplier effect implies that the presence of a given type of offense is likely to indicate the occurrence of, or even generate, another type of offense. Overall, variables with the highest impacts on the co-occurrence of offenses (cocriminality) are bribery/corruption, illegal use of flags, illegal fishing offenses, waste dumping, and illegal transshipment (see Table 2).
Variable	Coefficients	SE	t stat	P value
Bribery/corruption	1.5909102	0.0581272	27.36945	2.12 × 10−155
Flag	1.3305784	0.0415406	32.03081	9.45 × 10−208
Illegal fishing	1.2938773	0.0108365	119.3999	0
Waste dumping	1.2768898	0.0828083	15.419835	1.257 × 10−52
Transshipment	1.2157453	0.0169745	71.621739	0
Unauthorized	1.196381	0.0110504	108.26632	0
Smuggling	1.1924261	0.0169337	70.417383	0
Human rights	1.1170536	0.0125638	88.910409	0
Violent attack	1.064243	0.067492	15.768421	6.644 × 10−55
Name/identity	1.0526828	0.0386732	27.219949	8.01 × 10−154
Noncompliance	0.9943423	0.0297423	33.431905	1.25 × 10−224
Forgery/fraud	0.9940199	0.0206377	48.165306	0
Embezzlement	0.3077547	0.0706989	4.3530366	1.365 × 10−5
Control of corruption	0.0018243	0.000303	6.0216184	1.831 × 10−9
Unemployment	0.0013361	0.0009944	1.3436483	0.1791136
Government effectiveness	−0.001199	0.0002945	−4.071159	4.739 × 10−5
Intercept	−0.237105	0.0142946	−16.58697	1.969 × 10−60
Table 2. Linear regression results showing correlations between offense intensity, types of offenses, governance, and social indicators of coastal countries.
Data were extracted from the criminal record of fishing vessels and World Bank Databases. Coefficients represent the predicted value of the multiplier and, thus, the variable’s impact on co-occurrence/cocriminality.
Reported illegal fishing offenses occur throughout the wide enforcement-level spectrum of EEZs but are most common in countries with a high control of corruption and high government effectiveness rate (fig. S2), notably in Canada and Japan where MCS is well developed, particularly for coastal fisheries. Diversion, including attempted bribery, corruption, and noncompliance, seems to occur in environments where the control of corruption is low (e.g., Indonesia, Somalia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea) (fig. S2), regardless of the government effectiveness, exposing how vessels and companies profit of high prevalence of corruption to escape sanctioning. Transshipment offenses tend to occur in countries where government regulatory effectiveness is limited, pointing to factors such as lack of monitoring, lack of political will, or the lack of a proper regulatory framework with regards to transshipment.
We also conducted a regression analysis to test for the spotlight effect and the effect of the freedom of the press on reporting offenses. We found that while the model explained less than 1% of the variation, the Press Freedom Index may be positively correlated with the intensity of offenses (see table S8).
Major offenders
Our final analysis seeks to identify companies associated with numerous offenses. This analysis is limited, as only 1700 of 6853 incidents identify a company associated with the incriminated fishing vessels. Many governments keep company names confidential. Hence, we used an investigative approach to link the vessels to their beneficial owners. First, we searched the names of the vessels with at least the International Maritime Organization number, the Maritime Mobile Service Identity (MMSI), or the call sign in public databases listing the front owner of the vessel. Whenever the front owner is based in the coastal state yet there is an indication that the vessel is foreign owned, we deepened the search by investigating the front owner and the potential links to other companies by reviewing registration records found in public corporate registers, company websites, and financial reports, allowing us to identify beneficial owners. Within that sample, a third of all illegal activities (n = 684) were linked to 20 companies (Table 3), noting that the reported company name may not be the ultimate beneficiary owner and further concentration among key offenders is possible. At first glance, it appears that 50% of all companies listed in the criminal record are based in China (20% of the total counts of offenses), the European Union (EU) (13%), and Canada (10%), followed by tax haven countries (9%) that are often used to shelter financial transactions and hide illicit activities (fig. S3) (15, 16). Companies based in Ghana (6%), Indonesia (6%), and Thailand (5%) constitute a cumulated 17% of ownership base. These three countries are reputed for sheltering front companies from China, Spain, and other jurisdictions (21, 64, 65). Note that coverage will vary from country to another, which will affect a sector’s prevalence in the database. The industrial sector records 44% of their offenses, and 85% of industrial vessels have reported flag registered within a distinct jurisdiction other than that where offenses occurred, with vessels mostly being from China (28%) and the EU (10%). We find here that 3 of the top 20 companies with the highest number of offenses figure among the top 10 companies with the highest fishing effort in the high seas (66).
Company/individual name	Offenses	% of total offenses*	Vessel flag used	Ownership remarks
(Supplementary Materials)
PT. Mutual Dwikarya Abadi†	100	5%	« Indonesia »	Affiliated with Fuzhou Hong Long
Ocean Fishing Co. Ltd.
(FHLO),
a repeat offender. FHLO
shares the
same owner with Pingtan
Marine Enterprise.
Pingtan Marine Enterprise	92	5%	China
Fuzhou Hongdong Pelagic
Fishery Co. Ltd.	87	5%	China	 
Fishing & Cargo Services SA	69	4%	Panama	 
Sajo Industries Co. Ltd.	64	3%	South Korea	Owned by Sajo Group
Sajo Oyang Corporation	9	<1%	South Korea
China National Fisheries
Corporation	53	3%	China	Owned by China National
Agricultural
Development Group Co.
Ltd.
Dalian Lian Run Pelagic
Fishery Co. Ltd.	41	2%	China	 
Zhejiang Hairong Oceanic
Fisheries Co. Ltd.	38	2%	China	 
Ocean Star (Fujian) Pelagic
Fishery Co. Ltd.	29	2%	China	 
Dalian Bo Yuan Overseas
Fisheries Co. Ltd.	14	1%	China	 
Huang Jia Yi	11	1%	China	 
Dongxinglong Ocean Fishing
Co. Ltd.	10	1%	China	 
Qingdao Rongchang Ocean
Fishing Co. Ltd.	10	1%	China	 
Scott Stanley Matthew Steer	10	1%	Canada	 
Sierra Fishing Co.	10	1%	Sierra Leone	 
Tuna Atlantic Ltda.	10	1%	Colombia	 
Delipesca SA	9	<1%	Ecuador	 
Fujian Pingtan Hengli Fishery
Co. Ltd.	9	<1%	China	 
Rong Cheng Marine Fisheries
Co. Ltd.	9	<1%	China	 
Table 3. List of major companies responsible for a third of reported fisheries-related offenses within the industrial sector.
List based on records is available from the CRFV database, 2000–2020. Companies in bold figure are among the top 10 companies globally fishing in the high seas in terms of fishing effort.*For which offenses were documented.†Evidence suggests this company is a subsidiary of a Chinese owned company; see www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1517130/000114420414047364/R26.htm.
DISCUSSION
Working within the confines of CRFV’s 6853 incidents reporting one or several offenses by a fishing vessel across 18 categories of offenses within three main sets (fishing offenses, fraud and diversion offenses, other personal and property offenses), this study found that the vast majority of incidents are related to various types of fisheries offenses (mostly unauthorized fishing), followed by human rights abuses, smuggling, and diverse types of frauds with very few incidents reporting violent attacks.
Sector
Artisanal fishing vessels were ranked first in terms of offense occurrences (47%), but the vast majority of offenses (90%) only related to unauthorized fishing, with other offenses generally related to drug smuggling. The industrial sector accounted for fewer of the database-recorded offenses (39%) but was much more likely to be involved in other types of offenses. Moreover, the scale of impacts of offenses by industrial vessels can be expected to be much higher than for artisanal vessels (see further research below).
Offense
Corruption was the most likely to be associated with criminal behavior (offense intensity of 1.6), putting an emphasis on the need to identify and report vessels and companies bribing officials and, more generally, to curb corruption in the fisheries sector. In contrast, fishing vessels involved in drug trafficking were less likely to commit other offenses, suggesting that suspicion of involvement in smuggling should not rely on the detection of fisheries offenses. Vessels with reported human rights and labor abuses offenses frequently committed other types of offenses, including illegal fishing, transshipment, fraud, smuggling, and waste dumping, suggesting that these vessels systematically seek to reduce costs through criminal practices and should be targeted for several enforcement measures, including the seizing of vessels given the risk of reoffending.
Location
Illegal fishing offenses were mostly reported in countries with high MCS (such as Canada and Japan). Fraudulent and diversion offenses mostly occurred in countries with weak governance and likely to be more consequential in terms of financial and fish population losses.
Offender
Transversal criminality is mostly occurring within the industrial fishing sector and would most frequently involve Chinese vessels and companies, followed by vessels flagged in the EU, Tax Havens, Indonesia, and Thailand. Among the top 20 perpetrators, 12 were (apparent) Chinese companies, pointing to the need for Chinese authorities to intervene even more stringently and cooperate with jurisdictions in which its fishing fleet is in operation. Other home country governments, not only including Tax Haven countries and countries in East and Southeast Asia but also elsewhere such as Canada, must also rein in the criminal/illegal behavior of some of their companies and fishing vessels. We found evidence suggesting that some front companies, subsidiaries, and concealed ownership networks may hide a high risk of offenses associated with the true beneficial owner of one company (e.g., Fuzhou Hong Long Ocean Fishing, which before beneficial ownership analysis appeared to be scoring only three incidents but, after investigation, could score the highest number of offenses globally with 100 multijurisdictional offenses, possible shareholding, subsidiaries, and branches, notably PT. Mutual Dwikarya Abadi). This points to the importance of beneficial ownership analysis when dealing with criminality at sea.
Science and technology
This study reveals how different types of offenses converge and how fishing vessels involved in crime at sea use opportunistic behavior to engage in transversal criminality. Hence, this database and associated reporting mechanisms and analytical processes should be further developed to improve the identification of reporting gaps, their causes, and potential solutions; to combine methods to detect and cross-check offenses and offending companies and beneficial owners; and to facilitate information flows and accountability within and across jurisdictions. The types of affinities found in this analysis could be used to enhance existing artificial intelligence systems and algorithms that are meant to detect and predict the occurrence of offenses that are difficult to observe, including illegal fishing in areas without strong MCS and/or with high human rights and labor abuses.
Eight policy implications arise from this study, although we note that these recommendations should be read in light of the limits of our study, including partial geographical and sectoral coverage (see Methods). First, fisheries-related offenses should be addressed in relation to a broader set of criminal practices rather than as an isolated domain, as also pointed out by recent reports and initiatives by international bodies such as INTERPOL and the High Level Ocean Panel [see Introduction as well as (67)], and practices facilitating offenses, such as corruption and diversion, should be more severely sanctioned to make criminal practices harder to perform and more financially risky.
Second, there should be more systematic collection, sharing, and analysis of offenses among agencies and jurisdictions while preventing intelligence leaks that could facilitate offenses. Current data collection efforts are notably coordinated by INTERPOL (“Purple Notices” providing information on modi operandi, procedures, objects, devices, or hiding places used by criminals), RFMOs and similar bodies [e.g., The Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR)–noncontracting party IUU vessel list], and Spyglass.fish, which is the platform publishing the CRFV. Further progress requires increases in MCS capacities and operations, more comprehensive training on the different types of offenses and their relations, more effective protection of fisheries officials against the various pressures that they face in reporting and enforcing regulations, and cross-agency work including the tracking of multiple offenses and flagging of repeat offenders. This, in turn, can help with using proxies to detect co-occurrence of offenses, notably human rights and labor abuses, as well as threats or bribery of fisheries officials, that can point to a higher likelihood of illegal fishing and transshipment offenses.
Third, some activities could be decriminalized, in particular, in countries with poor surveillance and enforcement capacity so as to help reduce diversion, facilitate monitoring, and help focus on high-impact offenses. This is the case of transshipment: If a government is unwilling or unable to monitor its waters, bans on transshipment without enforcement may act as an incentive to still pursue transshipment but does so more clandestinely than if it was authorized and monitored (for example, transshipment activities in the Guinea Bissau EEZ are more easily monitored, as vessels usually keep their AIS on while transshipping, while vessels transshipping in Senegal and Mauritania hide their activities since it is banned, but the governments of Senegal and Mauritania are not necessarily able to detect and intercept these vessels). In addition, some fisheries rely on transshipment to save fuel costs, while many crew members rely on interactions with motherships to get access to satellite connection and get in touch with their loved ones. The idea here is to identify offenses that are likely to create ghost activities and harm crews and observers by banning them in the absence of effective enforcement.
Fourth, the relative minority of vessels and companies that are currently identified as responsible for a large part of offenses should face deeper consequences, including vessel seizures and jail time for beneficial owners, rather than relatively small fines and sentences only for crew and captains (we stress the notion of crew criminalization, which should be studied in depth). Given the profile of companies involved, this will require either that home countries directly intervene in punishing overseas offenses by their companies or that they at least make it understood that punishment by host countries will not face retribution (68, 69).
Fifth, given the overwhelming dominance of industrial fishing vessels associated with transversal criminality, policy and enforcement efforts should direct more efforts toward industrial vessels rather than artisanal fleets so as to maximize positive effects in terms of broad benefits (from healthy fish populations to public revenue and human rights protection) rather than criminalize artisanal fishers at the risk of pushing them further into illegal practices (e.g., drug smuggling). A nuanced understanding of the drivers of illegality can help reform biased regulations and enforcement unjustly hurting artisanal fishers (70, 71) and inform approaches deterring illegal fishing through compliance benefits rather than punishing measures hurting artisanal fishers. Sixth, our analysis reveals that 85% of the industrial vessels (1336 vessels), for which a flag was identified at the time of the offense (1562 in total), carried a flag whose state was different from the coastal state where they were operating, suggesting that most of the industrial fleet identified in the database operates under the distant water fishing model.
Seventh, enforcement agencies should be more transparent about offenses and incriminated companies (including threats against observers seeking to report offenses), and the information should be made available to the public along with stronger prosecution to foster greater accountability. In particular, agencies need to more systematically report abuses against observers, share knowledge about the cases and perpetrators involved, provide greater protection for observers, and impose sanctions against perpetrators. Last, further research should seek to gather more cases; include specific categories for bribery, threats, or abuses against fisheries officials; refine estimation techniques to better identify and address uncertainties (especially for areas with likely under-reporting); examine reoffending patterns by vessels and companies; and investigate the relative impact of offenses linked to industrial fishing compared to the artisanal sector.
METHODS
Data sources
In this analysis, we use the CRFV, available on the platform https://Spyglass.fish. The CRFV is a global database on fishing vessel–related offenses at sea, encompassing all types of offenses occurring and co-occurring onboard fishing vessels, by individuals and companies, globally. The database is a compilation of various sources as indicated below. Note that many of the infractions were not at the stage of prosecution. The reports are based on interdictions, regardless of the result of the legal outcome. Therefore, the reports represent any instances where enforcement, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), AIS analysis, witnesses, observers, and others encountered an irregularity or an illegality or when a case (previously confidential) was successfully prosecuted:
1) Media and NGO publicly available reports (5251 reports; Table 3) documenting all types of crimes listed in the CRFV (table S2). Media (press) reports are mostly postarrest and indicate the vessel name, the location, and other details. NGO reports commonly form a part of an investigation handed to a government (such as the work on human rights and labor abuses by the Environmental Justice Foundation) or a joint patrol activity report (Greenpeace inspections with government agencies in West Africa).
2) Government reports (1365 reports; Table 3) commonly report illegal fishing and associated offenses and drug trafficking. Government reports are based on availability/publication on a government website at the time the data are being treated. This includes press releases by the navy/coast guard, reports by the department in charge of (fisheries) surveillance, and regional/intergovernmental agencies (such as RFMOs). Some government reports have not been taken into account at the time of the analysis and hence represent a source of geographic bias (as discussed below). Reports for the United States, for example, only include those reports covering the distant water fishing fleet and not coastal incidents despite their availability because of time constraints (e.g., some U.S. reports require reading court documents; these will be added to the database at a later stage). This constitutes a source of bias for the coastal fleet; however, it does not affect the transversal criminality analysis given that they usually operate within one type of crime. Other country reports, such as those for Russia, were not included because of the language barrier.
3) AIS track analysis conducted using Global Fishing Watch data overlapped on prohibited areas (374). The full methods for this source are described in (72). This analysis was only performed around the African continent, includes only one type of offense, which is incursions into artisanal zones, and does not report any other overlapping offense because of the nature of the analysis.
4) Testimonies from witnesses, reports, and communications from informants, including those from the industry (heads of association), former crew members, and observers, who document instances of (illegal) transshipments, attempted bribing, and human rights and labor abuse, or offenses committed by seafood and crewing companies, whenever it is safe for the observers to share this information (outside the scope of RFMO, on a personal communication basis), if they are trained to detect them, subject to the lack of corruption. The number of these testimonies and confidential communications is rather low (21) because of the safety risks posed on the crew or the observers. While Spyglass.fish provides an avenue for reporting confidentially, many of these reports cannot be validated properly because of these safety issues.
Data are collected on a daily basis since 2016, whenever these reports are made available, whether online through media searches or through contacts within government agencies and other sources. The compilation does not assess whether these offenses were later proven in courts and thus simply records their reporting, not their legally demonstrated veracity. Identified sources of bias include the following (also see table S5):
1) Media and MCS reports targeting some flags more than others. For example, Chinese vessels could be more targeted by local media than vessels from other countries and possibly by MCS operations. We do not have evidence of this, however.
2) Media and MCS reports targeting some EEZs more than others. For example, West Africa seems to have a higher concentration of environmental NGOs and media/development agency attention on illegal fishing compared to other regions. More quantitative analysis addressing targeted Official Development Assistance (ODA) and targeted grant funding is needed to verify this assumption.
3) Spotlight effect in drug trafficking cases where only major cases (“big busts”) are reported.
4) Despite being easier to monitor because of their proximity to the coast and frequent return to nearby ports and landing sites, the small-scale sector’s monitoring results are not often reported, and sometimes, the sector is not at all monitored. Hence, countries with a high level of monitoring on the small-scale sector and public reporting of associated offenses will tend to show, in relative terms, a positive reporting bias compared to countries with lower level of monitoring and/or reporting but similar level of offenses (e.g., Canada has a high ratio of detected and reported offenses to total offenses committed in the case of these two sectors).This also raises the question of the threshold level for reporting and lack of scale of the offense committed. One single “small-scale” fishing offense may not appear to have the same impact as a large industrial trawler committing a major fishing offense. However, this remains debatable on some levels. For example, one small-scale offense may be only caught once, but since the sector is not well monitored, it usually hides a much higher level of illegality, including illegal fishing, license fraud, and smuggling of products. Illegality within the small-scale sector can also generate conflicts between, e.g., indigenous or local community members and nonlocal users.
5) Different sources and enforcement agencies will focus on different offenses and report them as such. This suggests that prioritization and deployment for a given purpose will affect the type of illegality encountered and hence reported (if reported). For instance, the U.S. Navy may board a vessel to check for narcotrafficking and may not necessarily check for illegal fishing. The whole idea of transversal criminality, and the lack of links between different offenses therein, suggests that surveillance operations may be typically mono-offense targeted and hence result in this form of bias.
Uncertainty related to information source types
The CRFV relies on three main sources of information, namely:
1) Media reports and government press releases, which are considered as reliable (based on reputation and media accountability) and include mainly observed offenses, regardless of their sanction status. These constitute 76% of the information sources in the database and are associated with a low degree of uncertainty.
2) Government lists, either publicly available or obtained through confidential but reliable informants from the government or third-party reports for the government. These constitute nearly 18% of the sources (95% public and 5% confidential) in the database and are considered highly reliable.
3) Witness (notably, fishers) testimonies, mainly collected through third-party investigations, such as those conducted by the Environmental Justice Foundation, Greenpeace, and others working around the issues of slavery and human rights abuses, in which case they are classified under (1) above, or from direct witnesses in only three cases in the database. Although these are considered reliable, particularly when testimonies corroborate each other, however, they are considered under the “alleged” category.
4) Infractions detected through AIS information overlapped with geographic information on prohibited areas between 2012 and 2016, through the Global Fishing Watch platform (72), which constitute nearly 6% of the sources. This category is regarded as uncertain, given the method used and direct observation being performed. In this particular case and in the case of the Russian fleet, a ground truthing exercise revealed that all Russian vessels detected as having fished within a prohibited zone had also infringed upon the prohibition of fishing within an artisanal zone at least once during the time period indicated above.
In this analysis, we argue that only category (4) constitutes a potential high source of uncertainty. However, given that it only constitutes a source of uncertainty for 6% of the cases, which are mainly fishing within a prohibited area, it is not expected to alter the conclusions of the previous analysis in a significant manner. The nature of the interlinkages nodes is not affected by incidents with an uncertainty score of 4 (Table 2). Hence, removing the 6% of instances does not change the trends or other findings significantly.
Uncertainty analysis was conducted for the nature of the source of the information, as per Table 4 below, and discussed other sources of uncertainty and bias. We score these sources of information for uncertainty differently, on the basis of their reliability, with a score of 1 for very low uncertainty (i.e., high reliability) and a score of 4 for very high uncertainty (i.e., low reliability). Government lists or reports score the highest, regardless of how they were obtained (e.g., only Guinea’s reports on arrests are made publicly available on the Ministry of Fisheries’ website). Reports from fisheries observers fall within that category, with the CRFV including 330 observer-reported infractions that were made publicly available by the RFMOs using them. Third-party reports and media reports are scored 2 (low uncertainty) because they are based on sound investigations and field verification (with or without government intervention). Information obtained through confidential informants is scored with high uncertainty at 3, as some confidential information may be very accurate but cannot be verified for certainty unless the primary evidence or an official, confidential, report is provided, and information is deducted from AIS at 4. This scoring enables the calculation of a confidence interval using a Monte Carlo approach (35).
Sources of
information	Uncertainty score
(1 to 4)	Number
Government reports
(e.g., Coast Guard,
Ministry of
Fisheries, RFMO
fisheries observer
reports, and
secondary sources
reporting arrests)	1	1365
Third-party reports
(e.g., C4ADS,
Greenpeace,
Environmental
Justice Foundation
(EJF), and media
reporting)	2	5251
Confidential
communications
(e.g., personal verbal
communication from
industry sources and
government officials,
including personal
communications
from observers)	3	21
AIS track overlap
analysis (Global
Fishing Watch)*	4	374
Table 4. Sources, uncertainty scores, and number of reported incidents.
1 denotes a higher certainty, and 4 denotes a lower one, with score based on the assessment of confidence level associated with credibility of the source, methodology used, and public disclosure. Note that there are variations within each category due to coverage variability (e.g., some governments may issue information with low certainty score, given the lack of coverage).*AIS tracks were overlapped with prohibited areas and verified against license lists.
Categorization of fisheries-related offenses
Building on studies categorizing fishing-related offenses (30, 32, 38, 39, 54, 73) (see Table 1 and tables S2 to S4), our study covers three main categories of offenses, a term that we use rather than “crime” since not all offenses fall into the legal category of “criminal offenses” in all jurisdictions, and a total of 18 subcategories (see Table 4). Each offense data point (n = 7962) within the Criminal Record of Fishing is associated with an incident (n = 6853), an offense subcategory (n = 18), the EEZs and regions where the offense took place (n = 155), and the year it took place (n = 21), as well as the sector (artisanal and industrial), the flag state (n = 114), the company or individual (n = 1050), and the fishing vessel (n = 2034) associated with the offense.
Co-occurrence analysis
After analyzing the category of offenses committed, we score each incident accordingly on the basis of the number of nodes (i.e., a vessel being caught for multiple offenses of different subcategories occurring simultaneously during the same incident; see Fig. 6). For example, if a vessel was caught for two different subcategories of offenses, then we score such incident with a transversal criminality score of 2. We also qualify, quantify the co-occurrence of such offenses, and determine the companies behind them and their owners by accessing online data platforms (e.g., Equasis.org, company websites, and corporate registries, as well as Center for Advanced Defense Studies (C4ADS), Environmental Justice Foundation reports, and Greenpeace reports).

Fig. 6. Zoom into human rights and labor abuse (A), illegal fishing (B), transshipment (D) links to other offenses in fisheries, 2000–2020, and analysis of how uncertainty affects these links (C).
Data are extracted from the CRFV. Each black bar is labeled with the corresponding offense category (except for the sectors’ bar), the colored flow after each bar documents the category of that bar. The red shades represent illegal fishing and unauthorized offenses. Green shades represent transshipment offenses. Purple shades represent human rights and labor abuse offenses. Brown shades represent financial offenses, and yellow shades represent forgery and fraud. If a red shade (IF) is followed by a purple shade (human rights and labor abuse), then it means that those two offenses were found in a similar incident. The further a flow goes, the higher the interlinkages score, meaning multiple offenses co-occurred in that single incident.
Risk factors analysis
We then analyze the conditions in which these offenses are likely to occur by modeling them (as independent variables) against social and governance indicators, namely, unemployment, control of corruption, and government effectiveness extracted from the World Bank database for each country for 2018. We use a linear regression model where the dependent variable is set as the number of times cocriminality or a node between at least two offenses (N) as a measure of intensity occurred. Independent variables were unemployment rate (U), control of corruption (C), and government effectiveness (G), extracted from the World Bank database (e.g., Worldwide Governance Indicators), and the list of the offenses were dummy variables with binary values Dn (such as TRUE or FALSE replaced in the regression by 1 and 0, respectively). We then quantify the number of times various offenses co-occurred during the same event and present their likelihood based on the variables above
where a is the intercept.
Acknowledgments
We thank Oceana for the support that made this work possible.
Funding: The authors acknowledge that they received no funding in support of this research.
Author contributions: D.B. and P.L.B. were involved in the conception of the project and the analysis and drafted the manuscript. D.B. performed all data collection, quantitative analyses, and figure preparation.
Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Data and materials availability: All data needed to evaluate the conclusions in the paper are present in the paper, the Supplementary Materials, and the vessel and company data available from https://spyglass.fish/.
""",
###article 33
"""
CAIRO (Reuters) -Two ships caught on fire after being hit by projectiles off Yemen's Aden, two UK maritime agencies reported on Sunday.

The British security firm Ambrey said on Sunday an Antigua- and Barbuda-flagged general cargo ship was struck by a missile 83 nautical miles southeast of Aden and caught fire. The fire was later contained.
Earlier, the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said it had received a report from a captain of a vessel of an incident 80 nautical miles southeast of Aden.
"The ship was heading southwest along the Gulf of Aden at a speed of 8.2 knots when the forward station was struck by a missile. A fire started but was neutralised," Ambrey said in an advisory note.

"A second missile was sighted but did not hit the ship. Persons on board small boats in the vicinity opened fire on the ship during the incident."

Ambrey said the ship changed course to port and increased speed, adding that "no injuries were reported."

Separately, Ambrey and UKMTO said they had received a report about another incident 70 nautical miles southwest of Aden.

"The master reports that the vessel was hit by an unknown projectile on the aft section, which resulted in a fire. Damage control is underway," UKMTO said in advisory note.

MORE: Places the U.S. Government Warns Not to Travel Right Now
Related: 10 Safest States in America
They added that no casualties were reported and the vessel was proceeding to its next port of call.

The Houthi militia, which controls the most populous parts of Yemen and is aligned with Iran, has attacked ships off its coast for months, saying it is acting in solidarity with Palestinians fighting Israel in Gaza.

Houthi fighters have launched drone and missile attacks in the Bab al-Mandab Strait and Gulf of Aden, forcing shippers since November to take longer and more costly journeys around southern Africa.

The United States and Britain have carried out strikes against Houthi targets in response to the attacks.

(Reporting by Muhammad Al Gebaly; Editing by Cynthia Osterman, Richard Chang and Kim Coghill)

Copyright 2024 Thomson Reuters.
""",
### article 42 (only for subscription)
None,
### Article 56
"""
RCMP say a man has died after he was injured aboard a fishing vessel in northeastern Prince Edward Island.

Cpl. Gavin Moore says police received a report shortly before 9 a.m. about a man who was hurt on a fishing boat.

Moore says the man died before the vessel made it to shore in North Lake, on the Island's northeastern tip.
He could not say when the vessel arrived, nor could he provide more information about the man or how he was injured.

Moore says the Mounties are still investigating and police have reported the death to Transport Canada, occupational health and safety officials, and the coroner's office.

The Transportation Safety Board of Canada says commercial fishing is one of the most dangerous jobs in the country, with 10 people dying in five incidents involving commercial fishing boats in 2023.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 19, 2024.

The Canadian Press
""",
### Article 64
"""
MANILA, Philippines (AP) — At least six crewmembers of a fishing boat were killed when an explosion and a fire hit their vessel at sea nearly 3 kilometers (1.8 miles) off a central Philippine province, coast guard officials said Thursday, adding six others were rescued.

Surviving crewmembers, including the skipper of the F/B King Bryan, were still being treated at a hospital or were too traumatized to tell investigators what set off the explosion and fire onboard the vessel Wednesday night off Naga city in Cebu province, coast guard officials said.
One of the injured crewmen was in critical condition at a hospital in Cebu, the coast guard said.

The wooden-hulled boat, which had bamboo outriggers, apparently developed engine trouble before an explosion and a fire engulfed the vessel, injuring crewmembers and forcing others to jump into the sea in panic. A passing tugboat helped put out the blaze and a coast guard search and rescue operation was launched, coast guard officials said.

Sea accidents are common in the Philippine archipelago because of frequent storms, poorly maintained boats, overcrowding and spotty enforcement of safety regulations.

In December 1987, an overcrowded ferry, the Dona Paz, sank after colliding with a fuel tanker, killing more than 4,300 people in the world’s worst peacetime sea disaster regarded by some as Asia's Titanic
""",
### Article 75 (log-in needed)
None,

### Article 88
"""
RCMP say a man has died after he was injured aboard a fishing vessel in northeastern Prince Edward Island.

Cpl. Gavin Moore says police received a report shortly before 9 a.m. about a man who was hurt on a fishing boat.

Moore says the man died before the vessel made it to shore in North Lake, on the Island's northeastern tip.
He could not say when the vessel arrived, nor could he provide more information about the man or how he was injured.

Moore says the Mounties are still investigating and police have reported the death to Transport Canada, occupational health and safety officials, and the coroner's office.

The Transportation Safety Board of Canada says commercial fishing is one of the most dangerous jobs in the country, with 10 people dying in five incidents involving commercial fishing boats in 2023.
This report by The Canadian Press was first published June 19, 2024.

The Canadian Press
""",
### Article 89
"""
A man is dead following an incident on a fishing vessel based in North Lake in northeastern Prince Edward Island.

According to an RCMP spokesperson, police were notified early Wednesday morning that someone had been injured on a boat.

Once the vessel reached shore, the man was declared deceased.

RCMP are working with the coroner's office and the occupational health and safety division of the Workers Compensation Board as part of the investigation.
""",
### Article 123
"""
CAIRO, June 9 (Reuters) - Two ships caught on fire after being hit by projectiles off Yemen's Aden, two UK maritime agencies reported on Sunday.
The British security firm Ambrey said on Sunday an Antigua- and Barbuda-flagged general cargo ship was struck by a missile 83 nautical miles southeast of Aden and caught fire. The fire was later contained.
Earlier, the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said it had received a report from a captain of a vessel of an incident 80 nautical miles southeast of Aden.

"The ship was heading southwest along the Gulf of Aden at a speed of 8.2 knots when the forward station was struck by a missile. A fire started but was neutralised," Ambrey said in an advisory note.
"A second missile was sighted but did not hit the ship. Persons on board small boats in the vicinity opened fire on the ship during the incident."
Ambrey said the ship changed course to port and increased speed, adding that "no injuries were reported."

Separately, Ambrey and UKMTO said they had received a report about another incident 70 nautical miles southwest of Aden.
"The master reports that the vessel was hit by an unknown projectile on the aft section, which resulted in a fire. Damage control is underway," UKMTO said in advisory note.
They added that no casualties were reported and the vessel was proceeding to its next port of call.
The Houthi militia, which controls the most populous parts of Yemen and is aligned with Iran, has attacked ships off its coast for months, saying it is acting in solidarity with Palestinians fighting Israel in Gaza.

Houthi fighters have launched drone and missile attacks in the Bab al-Mandab Strait and Gulf of Aden, forcing shippers since November to take longer and more costly journeys around southern Africa.
The United States and Britain have carried out strikes against Houthi targets in response to the attacks.
""",

### Article 137
"""
Firefighters responded to Vancouver's False Creek Thursday evening where three vessels caught fire, leaving one man hospitalized with severe burns.

Vancouver Fire and Rescue Services dispatched two fireboats and a ladder truck to the scene at around 5 p.m. 

Assistant Fire Chief Ken Gemmill said the blaze had engulfed two large vessels and a small pleasure craft. 

"Heavy smoke and flames came from the two bigger vessels, a 40-foot sail boat and a 35-foot pleasure craft," he said.

 
The vessels could be seen ablaze east of the Granville Street bridge, on False Creek between the seawall around Charleson Park and Yaletown.

The boat fire sent heavy smoke up into the Vancouver sky but the assistant fire chief has since said the situation was under control amid firefighter efforts.
Two passengers were aboard, a female passenger in the bigger sailing boat and a male passenger in the pleasure craft. 

Gemmill said the cause of the fire appears to be accidental. 

"It appears to be in the larger pleasure craft. The gentleman on board was cooking and something to do with the cooking, the vessel caught fire," he added.

"The female passenger while distraught isn't injured but the man has suffered severe burns."

According to the B.C. Emergency Health Services, the injured adult male was treated on the spot and was taken to the hospital shortly thereafter.

The man suffered serious burns but is currently reported to be in stable condition.
""",

### Article 138
"""The Don Luciano, a weather-beaten 45-foot fishing boat, motors out of Cocholgüe harbor in the early morning darkness. Behind the vessel, the houses of the village spill down the steep hillside toward the rocky harbor, where a narrow beach is lined by brightly painted boats in various states of repair. Cocholgüe, a cove on Chile’s central coast, is home to roughly 2,000 fishermen and their families. As Captain Fabian Rodriguez steers, his crew of six snoozes in cramped bunks despite the deafening diesel engine. The Don Luciano is one of the larger examples of Chile’s 9,300 artisanal fishing boats, which brought in 1.3 million tons of seafood in 2012.

The crew members emerge onto the rolling deck with the rising sun and pull on bright orange overalls and jackets and turquoise gloves. A beach ball-sized float marks the first set of gillnets, which are 200 feet long and suspended 10 feet above the seafloor. A muscular choreography begins: two men pull up the nylon nets, using a motorized winch when arm strength isn’t enough; two more disentangle hake that have been snagged by their gills (hence the term “gillnet”); and two coil the ropes and stack the empty nets.

The piles of fish grow, but painfully slowly, as seagulls bob in the swells and pelicans glide past in military formation. When the process is finished two hours later, the men reset the nets and use buckets of seawater to sluice fish slime from the decks and each other. The next set of nets is even more disappointing, with gaping holes left by boat anchors, stiff currents, or maybe sea lions.

Rodriguez shakes his head as he steers toward home around noon. Today’s catch looks to be about 15 boxes, each holding 60 pounds of fish, which will earn each man about $10. Rodriguez, a fisherman for 20 years, remembers when an average haul was 30 to 40 boxes. “You very rarely had a small catch, but not now,” he says. “These last few years it’s been low.”

“The science is clear—we must transition to sustainable practices and better manage our fisheries to avoid ecological catastrophe. We know that markets have a role to play in this, but we must also ensure that poor men and women who depend on small-scale fisheries for their livelihoods will benefit at the end of the day.”

DR. CRISTINA RUMBAITIS DEL RIO
SENIOR ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR, THE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION
Chile’s seafood industry, the sixth largest in the world, includes everything from tiny fishing boats and huge industrial trawlers to seething fish farms and aseptic factories. It’s a microcosm of the problems and potential solutions facing global fisheries, as stocks face collapse even as every year brings millions more mouths to feed. But with help from WWF—and with a newly amended fishery law, for which WWF gave input—the country is edging toward sustainability. “We’re on the right track,” says Ricardo Bosshard, WWF’s Chile director. “But we know we’re on a journey of 10 years, maybe more.”

Three billion people rely on seafood, both wild-caught and farmed, as their main source of animal protein. The industry supports 200 million jobs, making seafood one of the world’s biggest traded food commodities.

But that bounty has come at a price. Over 85% of marine fish stocks are considered either fully exploited or overfished, and more than one in five fisheries has collapsed. Climate change is altering the distribution of fish by acidifying the oceans and raising water temperatures. With more than 9 billion people estimated to crowd the planet by 2050, the continuing role of fish as food is becoming less and less secure.

Sandwiched in large part between the Andes and the Pacific, Chile is a coastline as much as a country, with more oceanfront real estate than the east and west coasts of the US combined. Seafood is the country’s third-largest export, but after decades of mismanagement, over two-thirds of Chile’s commercial bony-fish stocks are currently overexploited or collapsed, says Mauricio Galvez, WWF Chile’s Fisheries Program coordinator. “It is not only an environmental or economic issue. There are thousands of vulnerable people who directly depend on such stocks.”

The decline is in evidence in places like Cocholgüe. Antonio Bustos, president of the local fishermen’s union, is a bear of a man with a handshake toughened by decades at sea. “I’m a dignified man,” he says. “I don’t want to live off of handouts. I want to work and earn my money.” But it’s getting harder and harder to make ends meet, he says, with prices falling and the fish getting smaller and harder to find every year. “Our kids don’t want to be fishermen anymore.”

Many artisanal fishermen blame large industrial vessels (defined as boats more than 60 feet long) for the dwindling catches. They say these big boats fish indiscriminately beyond about five nautical miles out—but still within the historical artisanal fishing grounds—and misreport their catch. In 2012, 175 registered industrial vessels caught nearly as much as Chile’s entire artisanal fleet. Unregulated artisanal fishing is also a problem, says Bustos. Illegally caught hake sell for roughly $10 per box versus the $20-$30 that legal fishermen have to charge to cover costs. “Our legal catch is better-quality, bigger fish,” says Bustos. But given that price competition, law-abiding fishermen struggle to make a profit.

Fishermen finishing morning work © Meridith Kohut / WWF-Chile
Their early morning’s work complete, Mario Rojas (center) and crew get a lift from a crane onto the pier at Valparaiso, Chile. Rojas, 58, is a fourth-generation fisherman.

On top of that are the fishing quotas the government instituted in 2001 to try and save the country’s crashing stocks. “The quotas are so small you can’t make a living,” Bustos says—and some fishermen simply ignore them. Meanwhile, the fish keep getting smaller. Over the past decade, the median size for mature hake has reportedly dropped from 14.5 inches to 11 inches. “Twenty or 30 fish used to fill a box,” Bustos says. “Now it takes 80 or 90. One hake fillet used to cover a plate, and now you need two.”

Bustos says it would help if the government promoted higher hake prices and provided fishermen with gear to catch different species in different seasons. Having their own fish processing plant, he suggests, would help the residents of Cocholgüe and other caletas (local associations of fishermen) connect directly with international markets, as industrial operations do.

“Fisheries are complex, diverse and dynamic. Therefore, there is no guarantee that what is useful in Chile will be useful in [places like] Indonesia or Madagascar. But at least we believe that many good lessons can be adopted by our neighboring countries, because we share many similarities with them in the fishery section.”

MAURICIO GALVEZ
FISHERIES PROGRAM COORDINATOR, WWF CHILE
Dante Queirolo of the Pontifical Catholic University School of Marine Sciences in Valparaiso agrees that the hake fishery is in bad shape, and that illegal and unreported fishing is a serious problem. “People cheat,” he says. “We need to recognize that the monitoring system has failed.” To address this, the Chilean National Fisheries Service (Sernapesca) launched a new landing certification program this year to record how many fish are being caught by artisanal boats over 40 feet long.

The new landing certifications are part of an overhaul of Chile’s national fishing law, which went into effect in February 2013. WWF advocated for improvements in the law that focus on conservation and sustainability, including setting up legally binding fishery recovery and management plans, and using a transparent, science-backed process to set the yearly quotas.

One of the best places to find fish for domestic consumption is in Santiago’s fish market, built in 1996 with a grant from Japan. It’s the largest of its kind in the country, with over 1,000 tons of seafood sold every month, and it rumbles with activity starting well before dawn. Burly workers unload boxes of fish from trucks as vendors sell coffee and snacks out of shopping carts. Early morning buyers stroll between stalls looking for deals on every kind of seafood imaginable: salmon and giant squid, crabs and elephant fish, a whole octopus here, half a swordfish there. The smell is overwhelming, almost a visible haze in the air.

As the morning progresses, more shoppers arrive to haggle over ingredients for dinner or linger at a lunch counter over a thick bowl of caldillo de congrio, a traditional Chilean conger eel stew that’s known locally as a hangover cure.

The market reflects a vibrant slice of Chile’s economy, which in turn is only part of a much larger picture. Together, Chile, Peru and Argentina provide about 9% of the world’s total catch in two main categories: whitefish such as Patagonian toothfish (aka Chilean sea bass) and species low on the food chain like Peruvian anchoveta, used for fish oil and animal feed. Many of these stocks are in bad shape, which is why WWF helped establish the Southern Cone Alliance, a marine initiative aimed at long-term sustainability, in 2013.

WWF marine and fisheries offices in Chile and Peru, together with Argentina’s Fundación Vida Silvestre, a partner organization, are collaborating to ensure that the region’s fish are harvested at biologically safe and sustainable levels, without undue environmental impacts. The goal is to have three-quarters of priority fisheries certified as sustainable by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) by 2020.
""",

### Article 140
"""
Vladimir Putin's government has torn up fishing rights for UK trawlers
Government speaker said ban will make Britain 'lose weight and get smarter'
Vladimir Putin today declared a Cod War on Britain as he tore up fishing rights for UK trawlers that have existed since 1956.

His compliant parliament ended an agreement signed by the Soviet Union allowing British vessels to fish in the Barents Sea. 

The move to hit Britain's fish and chips is revenge for the UK handicapping the Russian economy with sanctions over the war in Ukraine, and supplying missiles to Kyiv. 

It is Putin's idea to hit at the British, says one of his closest henchmen. 

The 71-year-old dictator's warships could now be used against any trawlers seeking to catch cod on Putin's doorstep.
""",

### Article 148
"""
A biological fish stock is a group of fish of the same species that live in the same geographic area and mix enough to breed with each other when mature.  A management stock may refer to a biological stock, or a multi-species complex that is managed as a single unit.

Why Do We Conduct Fish Stock Assessments?

yellowfin_tuna.jpg
Yellowfin tuna jumping out of the water near Venezuela. 
NOAA Fisheries’ scientific stock assessments are key to fisheries management. They examine the effects of fishing and other factors to describe the past and current status of a fish stock, answer questions about the size of a fish stock, and make predictions about how a fish stock will respond to current and future management measures (Marine Fisheries Stock Assessment Improvement Plan). Fish stock assessments support sustainable fisheries by providing fisheries managers with the information necessary to make sound decisions.

Why Are Fish Stock Assessments Important?

Fisheries in the United States contribute significantly to the American economy and generate over 1.5 million jobs economy-wide. Healthy fisheries also provide recreational fishing opportunities to millions of Americans. To continue enjoying these benefits, we must carefully manage fish stocks to ensure sustainable use for current and future generations.

Stock assessments provide important science information necessary for the conservation and management of fish stocks. The Magnuson-Stevens Reauthorization Act calls for the best scientific information available to manage U.S. commercial and recreational fisheries. More than 500 fish stocks in the United States are managed under fishery management plans produced by eight regional fishery management councils. Additionally, coastal states and international organizations rely on NOAA Fisheries’ stock assessments for the management of non-federal and joint jurisdiction fish stocks.

Rick Methot - Stock Assessments in Support of U.S. Fisheries
Richard Methot presentation on stock assessments and U.S. fisheries.

SharePlay Video
Data for Complete Stock Assessments—Catch, Abundance, and Biology

Stock assessments are based on models of fish populations that require three primary categories of information: catch, abundance, and biology.  To ensure the highest quality stock assessments, the data used must be accurate and timely. 

Catch Data—The amount of fish removed from a stock by fishing. 
A national network of fishery monitoring programs continuously collects catch data and makes this information available to stock assessment scientists and managers. Sources of catch data include:

Dockside monitoring: Often conducted in partnership with state agencies and Fishery Commissions, dockside monitoring records commercial catch receipts to give an accurate measure of commercial landings and provides biological samples of the length, sex, and age of fish.
Logbooks: Records from commercial fishermen of their location, gear, and catch.
Observers: Biologists observe fishing operations on a certain proportion of fishing vessels and collect data on the amount of catch and discards. 
Recreational sampling: Telephone interview surveys and dockside sampling estimate the level of catch by the recreational fishery (Read more about the Marine Recreational Information Program).
Abundance Data—A measure, or relative index, of the number or weight of fish in the stock. 

Data ideally come from a statistically-designed, fishery-independent survey (systematic sampling carried out by research or contracted commercial fishing vessels separately from commercial fishing operations) that samples fish at hundreds of locations throughout the stock’s range. Most surveys are conducted annually and collect data on all ecosystem components. NOAA Fishery Survey Vessels and chartered fishing vessels use standardized sampling methods to collect data the same way each year, providing a relative index of abundance over time.  In some situations, catch rates by fishermen can be calibrated to provide additional abundance measures as well. 

Biology Data—Provides information on fish growth rates and natural mortality. 

Biological data includes information on fish size, age, reproductive rates, and movement. Annual growth rings in fish ear bones (otoliths, pictured on right) are read by biologists in our laboratories. The samples may be collected during fishery-independent surveys or be obtained from observers and other fishery sampling programs. Academic programs and cooperative research with the fishing industry are other important sources of biological data.

Improving Data Collection—Good Stock Assessments Require High Quality Data Inputs

How is NOAA Fisheries working to improve data collection programs?

Electronic catch data collection for rapid access.

Advanced monitoring equipment attached to traditional sampling gear to collect concurrent environmental information during surveys.

Visual surveys in complex habitats using imaging systems on robotic and autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs - click here for more details on AUVs from one of our Teachers at Sea).

Non-extractive (does not harm or remove samples) abundance sampling using hydroacoustic technology.

Better define stock boundaries, habitat use, and fish movements by using electronic fish tags, genetic analysis, and research on the chemical structure of fish bones.
Stock Assessments—Designed to Answer Difficult Questions:

What is the current status of a fish stock relative to established targets? (e.g. Is a stock experiencing overfishing? Is the stock overfished?)

How much can fishermen catch while maintaining a healthy and sustainable fish stock?

If a stock is depleted, what steps must be taken to rebuild it to healthy abundance levels?
Answers to these important questions help managers make the best decisions to ensure a healthy balance between sustainable fish stocks, ecosystem health, and productive coastal communities.
""",

### Article 149 
"""
A West Virginia man broke a 31-year-old state record by catching the wrong fish on the Kanawha River. John Gibson, of Poca, reeled in a 27.88-pound, 35.59-inch freshwater drum, according to the W.V. Division of Natural Resources. That’s almost a full pound heavier than the record set in 1989, the state reports. The funny thing is, Gibson wasn’t trying to catch any drum.

The catch came during an otherwise fruitless day on the river near Leon, he wrote. News of the record catch has gotten hundreds of reactions and comments on Facebook, including lots of questions on how Gibson trapped “a river monster.” He has quickly answered most of the questions: His bait was half of an 8-inch shad on a Big Cat Fever Rod; the drum actually lost a little weight on the boat (“When I first weighed it, it was 28.42.”); and it was about 1.4 inches shy of breaking the freshwater drum length record of 37 inches set in 1954.

Gibson says he initially thought he caught a hard-fighting catfish, until the drum came out of the water. “He hit like a Mack Truck,” Gibson told McClatchy News. “Just about pulled my rod out of the rod holder. Once I got the rod in my hands, I told Terry Legg, my fishing partner: ‘Man, this is a big one.’ At that time I still thought it was a catfish. But when I saw it, I immediately asked what the state record was.” Gibson posted video on Facebook of the fish being released, after it was weighed and confirmed by state wildlife officers. It is seen swimming away, then appears to come back toward the boat ramp.
""",

### Article 154
"""
Alligators, snakes and monster-sized fish all can be found in Lake Conroe's waters. 

Some Montgomery County residents have speculated that bull sharks are swimming around the man-made lake, which officials have said is false. 

On YourCourierNews.com: 5 waterfront Lake Conroe restaurants to enjoy the views this summer


While the lake has a little bit of everything, the bull shark is not a species that can be found, said Niki Harbison-Ragan, fisheries biologist for the Texas Parks and Wildlife. 

"If there's a bull shark, it's because somebody caught one at the coast and put it in there," Harbison-Ragan said. "We have never seen one." 

However, there are other "creatures" visitors can find at the lake: 

The American Alligator
The American Alligator is common in swamps, rivers, bayous and marshes of the southern U.S., including the eastern third of Texas, according to the Texas Parks and Wildlife website.


Alligators are also found in the northern parts of the lake, closer to the Sam Houston National Forest, Harbison-Ragan said. 

The alligators tend to stay away from the open water, especially where there's a lot of people, she said. 

On YourCourierNews.com: Want to go to Lake Conroe, but don't have a boat or a lake house? Here are 5 tips for visiting

As human populations in Texas continue to expand, there have been an increased number of encounters between people and alligators, the agency's website states.


Alligators have been known to prey on pets and must be treated with caution. Alligators can be surprisingly quick on land and are capable of running quickly over short distances.

Formerly an endangered species, the alligator is now a protected game animal in Texas. Special permits are required to hunt, raise, or possess alligators.

Aquatic Snakes
There are several aquatic snakes that hang around the lake, including nerodia, broad-banded, yellow-bellied and water moccasin water snakes, Harbison-Ragan said. 


Most of these snakes are non-venomous, excluding the water moccasin — also known as cottonmouths, the Texas Parks and Wildlife's website states. Cottonmouths can be dark brown, olive-brown, olive green or almost solid black. They are marked with wide, dark bands, which are more distinct in some individuals than in others.

Snakes do not prey on humans and they will not chase you, in fact they usually retreat or escape if given the opportunity. People are asked not to kill any snake, even venomous types.

Bass, crappie and catfish
Bass, crappie and catfish are just some of the fish that can be found in the lake's waters.


Largemouth bass are the most sought after species in Lake Conroe, the Texas Parks and Wildlife's website states. In 1998, the biggest largemouth bass ever collected by TPWD in an electrofishing survey was taken from beneath a boat dock and weighed in at 14.1 pounds. The standing lake record caught in 2009 by angler Ricky Bearden weighed 15.93 pounds.

Catfish are the most abundant inside the lake, the agency's website states. In 2018, a Texas Parks and Wildlife biologist caught a 42-inch blue catfish during a survey of the lake. In 2016, the same team photographed a 52-inch beast.

Bluegill on Lake Conroe grow to enormous sizes as well, with some anglers reported to have caught 12-inch bluegills.  

For more information on fish in the lake, visit the Texas Parks and Wildlife website. 
""",

### Article 155
"""
It’s true that Montauk holds more deep sea fishing records than any other port in the world. But the record for the largest fish ever caught on rod and reel has eluded it. That record remains a 2,664-pound shark caught by a fisherman out of Adelaide, Australia in 1959.

Nevertheless, if you go down to the Clam and Chowder House at Salivar’s Dock today, you will see, high up on the wall, the enormous head of a killer shark, its jagged teeth exposing a hideous grin, that had once been attached to a shark that weighed as much as a car—3,427 pounds—and which was reeled in on tackle that would break if it were stressed to an amount greater than 100 pounds. It was caught by a Montauk fisherman and reeled in 30 miles southeast of Montauk in early August, 1986. It should have broken the record, but didn’t.

This shark was disqualified by a representative from the International Game Fish Association, who came up to Montauk a few days after the fish was caught to review the claim. He’d read an article I’d written in Dan’s Papers about how this fish got caught. I’d written it in detail.

I didn’t know that one particular detail I wrote about would disqualify the catch. Neither did Captain Frank Mundus, who captained the boat that caught it and told me how he did it, there out on the dock the night the fish was brought ashore.

Later, after everything blew over, Mundus told me he forgave me. “You couldn’t know,” he said. “Neither could I.” The Australian entry is still unchallenged to this day.

Frank Mundus and his crew pose with the monster great white shark
Mundus and his crew, Courtesy Montauk Library
On the Sunday afternoon of August 8, 1986, Captain Mundus took four New York City fishermen aboard his Cricket II deep-sea shark fishing boat. These men were serious fishermen who’d paid Mundus $1,500 to be out there for a full 24 hours. They were not expecting to catch anything the size of an automobile. They were after sharks that would weigh on the order of 200 or 300 pounds each. That was the plan.

On Monday morning, 30 miles off Montauk, Mundus came upon the floating carcass of a 55-foot dead whale. Herds of sharks were feeding on this whale. It occurred to Mundus that a giant might be among them.

Mundus talked to the businessmen. He wanted to stay near to that dead whale through to Tuesday evening if needed. He sensed the giant. He’d extend the charter, for free, just to stay with him.The businessmen talked it over and told Mundus they appreciated the offer but had to get back to their businesses in Manhattan. So Mundus radioed to a nearby charter boat to come alongside, pick them up and take them in. He was staying.

The following afternoon, he saw what he was looking for. A great white was dining on the whale, going off and then coming back. He’d try to hook this shark with 100-pound test line. A fight of up to six hours would be possible. This was a problem. He was 60 years old and knew his limits. “I’m no spring chicken,” he told me back on the dock. He’d need a young “damn fool” to do the fight. And he knew where there was one.

“I’d been in radio contact with Donnie Braddick of the Fish On, nearby looking for tuna. He’s 30. I called him, told him where I was, what it was all about and asked him if he’d like to come over.”

Donnie Braddick saw this as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. He’d be the damn fool. He motored over and they lashed the two boats together. Captain Mundus played out his fishing line with butterfish and whiting disguising the hooks. And they waited.

I asked Mundus the obvious question. How do you reel in a 3,500-pound fish on 100-pound line?

“You don’t,” he said. “You just catch him on the line. And then you chase him around the ocean with the boat and you tire him out.”

I told Mundus I thought this was terrifying.

“Finally, you pull up alongside him in your boat—you find a time when he is resting comfortably up on the surface—and you hit him in the tail with your gaff hook, and then you lasso him with a rope.”

“What if he wakes up?”

“That’s the thing. If he does, you’re dead.”

“And how do you kill him?”

“By dragging him home backwards. The water goes up into his gills the wrong way. He suffocates after a time.”

“Oh.”

The Cricket II was only 42 feet long. The fish he dragged home would be lashed to the side, heeling the ship way over. It wouldn’t be easy, but it could be done if you went slow.

Mundus sat in the fighting chair, ordered Braddick up to the wheelhouse to pilot the Cricket II and shouted up to him to go this way and that. He’d use his 30 years of experience to get the monster to take the bait. An hour went by, and then…he bit.

“As soon as he took the hook, I called to Braddick to come down and get in the chair. He’d bring him in. It would be his fish. We changed places.”

Over the marine radio, Mundus called Captain Carl Darenberg of the Montauk Marine Basin to tell him what was going on. Darenberg told Mundus he’d stay at his desk, available for further conversations, and then called his wife to say he wouldn’t be home for dinner.

Frank Mundus's famous great white shark
Mundus’  great white, Courtesy Frank Braddick
By 11 p.m. that night, more than 1,000 people including this reporter, were down at the docks, hoping to get a glimpse of Mundus coming through the jetties. He was taking his time. We waited for hours. Car headlights were turned on the jetty. Finally, the Cricket II came through at a slow four knots, leaning way over to starboard with the weight of the shark lashed there. It was quite a sight.

Lit by other car headlights at the dock, a yellow forklift tried to raise the fish, but it was so long the forklift could not get it completely out of the water. A construction crane was brought in, and, after using it to slide a heavy cargo net under the shark, they were able to lift it up and place it atop a big scale that could weigh things up to 3,500 pounds.

The giant lay there, its tongue hanging out one side of its mouth, its twin rows of teeth glistening. The needle went up to 3,500 and hovered there. Deducting the 72 pounds for the net, the Marine Basin announced its weight at 3,427 pounds. Pictures were taken.

The fish lay on the dock for the next 24 hours, during which time reporters and newscasters from CBS, ABC, The New York Times and the national media came out to tell the story, as did scientists from the Museum of Natural History, National Marine Fisheries Service and the International Game Fish Association.

Dan’s Papers was published. I had written what Mundus had told me.

“The monster took the hook around 4:30 in the afternoon with Mundus in the chair. Mundus immediately got up. Braddick sat down and the fight was on…”

And that’s what disqualified this catch. From start to finish, the catching of the fish had to be done with just one fisherman in the fighting chair. And it wasn’t.

Years later, Lou Russo, a columnist for the Fisherman’s Weekly, wrote “(This incident reported in Dan’s Papers) was the likely reason the IGFA did not approve the record. A record 547 kg shortfin mako catch by Jody Daniels on the Hustler captained by Glen Hodson on March 2, 1990, was disqualified for the same reason.”

I told a friend this story.

He thought about it. “You should kill yourself,” he said.
""",
### Article 170
"""
A﻿ garbageman has landed what is believed the biggest freshwater fish ever caught on a rod in the United Kingdom.

It took Darren Reitz, 34, and three men 50 minutes to reel in the gigantic 64.4kg catfish from waters at Chigborough Lakes nature reserve in Essex.

Reitz had fished for 14 hours without a single nibble on April 27, but his luck changed when he switched his bait, he told the UK Telegraph.
At 10.30pm, Reitz felt the line pull and just under an hour later he was weighing his catch.

"My friends started panicking as it was clearly a big fish and they were telling me how I should pull it out," he told the Telegraph.
"I did it how I wanted to, and about 50 minutes later I pulled that huge catfish out of the water."

Reitz, who picked up fishing in 2017 after he was assaulted in a nightclub, said he was "over the moon" about landing the fish, which he nicknamed "Scar".

"I can't stop talking about it, you never think you will catch something like that," he said.

"And that is the joy of fishing, I guess I was just in the right place at the right time."

An earlier catfish record was set in 2000 at 28.1kg.

But soon after the British Record Fish Committee closed record keeping as it feared the practice was encouraging the illegal importation of large catfish.
But in 2023 the records were reopened and a 58kg fish set a new benchmark.

Reitz's monster 64.4kg fish is thought to be not only the biggest catfish caught in Britain but officially the biggest of any fish caught on a rod in freshwater in the UK.

He was awarded £143 for his catch, ﻿£1 for each of the 143 pounds the fish weighed.

﻿Reitz said he was delighted with the prize.

The men released the fish after it had been weighed.﻿
""",

### Article 178
"""
A first glimpse of data from cameras on board commercial fishing boats has revealed what conservationists have long suspected: that deaths of ocean wildlife in nets and lines have been significantly under-reported. Andrea Vance reports.

Seven years after it was first announced as a way to revolutionise industrial fishing in the wake of a fish-dumping scandal and the accidental killing of thousands of seabirds, dolphins and sea lions, the Ministry for Primary Industries has published its first observations on footage captured from more than 100 vessels.

Ocean conservationists said the new data proved that for decades vessels had been under-reporting what and how much they were catching. They argue that armed with a more accurate picture of the impact the industry has on fish populations and protected species, the Government should be taking a more cautious approach when setting regulations and catch limits.

That’s not likely to happen under Oceans and Fisheries Minister Shane Jones, a proclaimed champion of the marine economy. In a move that is only likely to rile environmental advocates, he has instead asked officials to look at ways to hand back control of the footage to industry.

Since the high-definition cameras were introduced last year, there has been a nearly seven-fold increase in the number of dolphins reported caught in nets.

Albatross interactions were up by 3.5 times what was previously reported. ‘Interactions’ is a catch-all term to include accidental capture or hooking of a bird when it dives for bait, hitting a line, or even landing on deck to snatch offal or bait.

Almost all interactions are regarded as adverse because they result in injury or lead to seabirds being attracted to vessels.

The data also showed an astonishing rise — of 46% — in the volume of reported discards. That’s unwanted fish thrown overboard because it is undersized or not valuable.

Currently, crew can legally return quota species to the ocean, but most fish returned to the sea don't survive. New rules, in force from 2026, means they will have to bring almost everything they catch back to port.

The fishing industry said the surveillance technology had simply made fishers “more vigilant”, and said there was enough contingency built into the fisheries management system to account for the inconsistency.

Separately, quarterly reporting data published by MPI last week showed six endangered Hector’s dolphins died in trawl nets in the first three months of this year.

Eyes and ears of the ocean
As of April 1, cameras are operational on 127 of 255 (or 50%) of vessels working in three areas. They went live in 38 vessels in the West Coast North Island trawl and set-net area — home to the world’s 50-or-so remaining Māui dolphins — last August.

In the South Island trawl and set-net area — key habitat for hoiho, one of the world’s rarest penguin species, and endangered Hector’s dolphins — cameras were switched on aboard 67 vessels from October.

And 22 surface longline vessels followed, across the country, in mid-January.

Footage has been provided to MPI division Fisheries NZ from 105 of those craft, showing 11,000 hours. Using random sampling, officials reviewed 3,733 fishing events.

But they’ve also used the camera roll-out to analyse reporting behaviour, which showed a significant jump in the number of incidents, as well as catch, and discarding.

“These are pretty stark figures, but they do reinforce what we have suspected all along: that fisheries by-catch is being under-reported by industry, and that we do not have an accurate picture of the threats that commercial fishing poses to our threatened species,” WWF New Zealand chief executive Dr Kayla Kingdon-Bebb said.

“That is significant. In part for the diminishing social licence of the commercial fleet for unsustainable fishing methods. But also because a lot of our fisheries management decisions in New Zealand are based on reporting.”

One such decision is the outcome of a review of regulations put in place in 2019 to protect seabirds, of which around 90% are threatened with extinction.

Commercial fishers using surface longline in domestic waters are required by law to either fit hook-shielding devices to their lines, or adopt two out of three mitigation methods. Those include bird-scaring lines (called tori lines), weighting lines or setting lines at night.

Conservation groups, including WWF NZ, Forest & Bird and Greenpeace, want to see all three methods deployed at all times.

Last year, in a briefing paper prepared for the previous government, Fisheries NZ officials were leaning towards a ‘spacial’ approach, whereby all three methods be required but only at certain times of the year, or in certain fisheries.

However, that advice was prepared before cameras went live, without the updated reporting data.

Forest & Bird strategic advisor Geoff Keey said the agency should now re-evaluate its opinion.

“The integrity of the fisheries management system really is based on the integrity of the logbooks. So if what the fishers are reporting is not what's happening on the water then that messes with the integrity of the entire fisheries system.

“Accurate reporting is essential for managing the risk to seabirds and marine mammals.”

The discrepancy also throws into question how officials calculate total allowable catch, Keey said. That’s the total quantity of each fish stock that is allowed to be caught (commercially or by recreational or customary Māori fishers), usually over a year, to ensure stocks remain sustainable.

“One of the things that MPI has to do when setting the allowable catch is to try and give an estimate of how much of the fish is actually being thrown overboard. And what we're seeing is a 46% jump in the amount of fish reported as thrown overboard.

“That difference is really important for working out how much is allowed to be caught.”

Ellie Hooper, oceans campaigner at Greenpeace Aotearoa, said the new data proved it was worth the protracted, seven-year fight to implement the camera programme.

Former National Party minister Nathan Guy announced the roll-out in July 2017. But under the incoming Labour Government, the scheme was delayed several times because of opposition from NZ First.

The roll-out got back on track when Moana, Sanford and Sealord, the biggest seafood producers, broke ranks with the rest of the industry and declared support.

The first phase – on 32 vessels in the Māui dolphin habitat – was due to be finished by the end of November 2022, but then delayed by technical hiccups.

Hooper says the troubled scheme should be expanded to the deepwater fleet, which accounts for about 75% of the catch from wild capture fisheries.

The previous government committed $68 million to fit up to 300 inshore vessels with the cameras by next year.

“It really irritates me that we hear a lot of talk from the regulator and the commercial fishing industry about ecosystem-based management and informed decision-making. Well, you can't make informed decisions if you don't have the information.

“We can't have this much of an impact on the ocean ecosystem and then expect it for it to endlessly keep providing.

”Cameras are a really clear way for us to verify how much fish is caught, what was discarded, and what protected [species] were killed. You need that information because otherwise you're making decisions blindly.

“Unfortunately, it serves the commercial fishing industry to make those decisions blind, but it's not going to work going forward.”

Hooper might be wrong about that. Jones, who was opposed to the camera rollout, is unsympathetic to the concerns of “green politburo banshees”.

He has asked officials to examine whether the FishServe model can be expanded to the camera programme.

FishServe is an administrative company, owned by lobby group Seafood NZ, which collects data from fishers about the accidental capture of protected species, and checks catch reports and quota compliance on behalf of MPI.

Environmental NGOs have long argued this is regulatory capture — and that in order to prosecute fishing companies for law breaches, MPI has to rely on data collected and provided by a company owned by the industry.

However, successive governments have argued there is no conflict of interest in the outsourcing.

Jones said he had asked officials to do a “deep dive”, and pledged to consult with the public on any changes.

“I want to see whether options such as the highly successful FishServe model can be extended to the camera initiative. This is an example of the devolution of services under the Fisheries Act. The camera data must be seen as a sustainability tool, not purely as a compliance bludgeon.

“I accept though there is a problem with trust in the broader stakeholder community of fisheries. This will need to be addressed.”

Jones was particularly concerned about privacy in what was essentially government surveillance of a workplace - a concern shared by the industry.

“We have long supported greater transparency,” said Seafood NZ chief executive Jeremy Helson. “What we don’t want is to compromise fishers’ individual privacy or create a huge cost burden for the industry.

“We are keen on exploring intelligent camera systems and AI technology. Cameras can and should be used for more than just enforcement, we would like to see them helping with other aspects of fisheries management and data collection, so we can feel even more confident about our fisheries.”

The seafood industry netted record profits last year, pulling in $2.08 billion of revenue, up 8% on 2022. Officials told Jones in a recent briefing that around $5m a year (about half) could be recovered from industry towards programme costs.

Helson said deepwater operators would prefer a “robust” observer programme, where officials watch and record what is happening on board vessels.

“Observers can move around and see every aspect of operations on a vessel,” he said. “As well as monitoring the catch they are also responsible for collecting biological data, taking samples from fish, and other scientific work that helps make the fishery more sustainable. This type of work cannot be carried out by cameras.”

Helson said the data reported so far “is within what current models estimate, so these increases do not necessarily represent greater sustainability concerns”.

He added: “There may be some year-on-year fluctuations to consider here, but what we think cameras are doing is causing all fishers to be more vigilant about their numbers. This is a good thing.

“The regulator manages our fisheries using mathematical models built by scientists which produce estimated interaction numbers for protected species. These models allow for inconsistencies in reporting. These models scale up data from MPI observers, so they are representative of the full fishing fleet.”

The new numbers will further strengthen modelling and management of fisheries, he added.

Helson said consumers would welcome greater transparency. “We see this as a fresh start with everyone on the same page. It is a good thing to have increased transparency.”

He also said discard data needed careful interpretation. “Fishers are allowed or in some cases required by law to discard (maybe because the fish are small and need to be back in the sea or for some other reason required by law).

“This is not unlawful behaviour and in some cases discarding has to happen to comply with the law.”

Fisheries New Zealand deputy director general Dan Bolger said the increase of reporting was expected and in line with other countries.

“In developing fisheries management settings, Fisheries New Zealand collects a wide range of information from fishers, fisheries observers, on-board cameras, licensed fish receivers as well as peer-reviewed scientific modelling,” he said.

“The modelling takes into account multiple factors, including environmental changes and natural fluctuations in abundance. It does not rely on fisher-reported information about marine mammal interactions.”

Bolger said he remained confident in data collected by observers, through independent surveys, and peer-reviewed scientific modelling, and analyses, prior to the rollout of cameras.

“We welcome the information we are receiving through the camera programme. It has enriched our view of what is happening on the water. Verified fisher reporting and insights from cameras are expected to strengthen the information available to support management of harvested fish stocks and the effects of fishing on the environment.

“The programme is in its early stages and we will continue to recommend changes to fisheries management settings where it is supported by the weight of evidence.”

‘Significant interaction events’ are reported by MPI outside the normal cycle. They revealed that between January and March, six Hector’s dolphins, and one yellowed-eyed penguin, were snared in nets off Timaru and Banks Peninsula.

One bottom trawler caught two of the dolphin in one haul. Another killed nine birds in one go - eight sooty shearwater and a Foveaux shag. A purse seine vessel, which usually targets tuna or mackerel, captured six spine-tailed devil rays, of which only two survived.
""",

###Article 197
"""
A rescue vessel is en route to near where a flare went off in Stanmore Bay, north of Auckland.

A Coastguard Tautiaki Moana spokesperson told Newshub that Coastguard Hibiscus volunteers were on the water investigating the flare sighting alongside police.

Police received several reports of the flare sighted near Stanmore Bay shortly after 7:30pm on Sunday.

"Police and the Coastguard are working to determine circumstances," a police spokesperson said.

Several people on social media reported seeing the flare and contacting authorities.

"A flare over the water hopefully someone is okay in a boat," one person wrote.

"I hope whoever it is, comes home safe," another said.
""",
### Article 226
"""
Tuna are the jet-setters of the oceans. With muscular, streamlined bodies designed for speed—they can swim up to 43 miles per hour—some of these fish can migrate thousands of miles across the Atlantic and Pacific oceans to feed and reproduce. As one of the world's most popular seafoods, tuna travel equally impressive distances from the fishing boats that catch them to our grocery stores and restaurants. Have any idea where your most recent can came from? Here's one common route—and how WWF is working to make it sustainable.
""",

### Article 237
"""
Introduction
The importance of marine ecosystems is hard to question. Not only are they acting as a major carbon sink and heat regulator, they also provide livelihoods and nourishment for more than 3 bn people.  Ocean-related products contribute about $3 tn to the global economy each year. This risk briefing aims to shed light on the causes and methods of illegal, unregulated and unreported (IUU)  fishing, its link to the marine insurance sector and how industrial insurers, such as AGCS, can help tackle the problem.
However, the oceans experience a crisis: warming, acidification, oxygen depletion, micro-plastic pollution, spills and sea levels are rising in almost all ocean basins. Experts consider living marine resources extraction and destruction of coastal areas as the largest ocean-related risks for humankind. Coral reefs are among the most diverse and valuable ecosystems but more than 75% of all  tropical reefs experienced bleaching-level heat stress in recent years, and at nearly 30% of reefs, it even reached mortality level. The death of coral reefs entails the loss of nurseries site for one quarter of all ocean´s fish, additionally to fishing practices that are exploiting stocks to about 93%. The Census of Marine Life concluded in 2010 that 90% of large fish are gone, primarily because of overfishing. As a consequence, humankind faces serious economic and social problems since fishing provides employment to 60 million people worldwide, including 84% in Asia. Moreover, in several developing countries, fish can account for over 50% of animal protein consumption and thereby is crucial for the local food security.

In addition to legal fishing which is regulated, IUU fishing threatens the survival of the sector by accelerating the stocks depletion process, outcompeting legal fishermen and undermining protection and recovery measures. According to a report published by the United Nations in 2016, illicit fishing is responsible for about the same amount of global harvest as would be gained by ending overfishing and rebuilding fish stocks.

On one hand, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal number 14 relates specifically to the oceans and i.a. explicitly targets overfishing and IUU fishing as. On the other, the UN Environment’s Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) aims to embed environmental, social and governance issues relevant to insurance business in the insurance decision-making processes. The engagement of these both supranational initiatives makes it plain that industrial insurers have to deal with IUU fishing as soon as possible.

What is illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing?
Illegal fishing is an unresolved and internationally pervasive problem which occurs both on the high seas and in areas within national jurisdiction. It concerns all aspects and stages of the capture and utilization of fish and its associated problems (e.g. overfishing, catching and retaining non-permitted species or species over or under a permitted size limit, use of banned gear, fishing in a closed area, fishing during closed season).  Not only the vessels that directly participate in illicit fishing are included but also those that support the practice such as refrigerated transport vessels and supply ships.

Due to this complexity and variety of aspects, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) defined three categories namely, illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing:

Illegal fishing relates to vessels in waters under the jurisdiction of a State, without permission of that State, or in contravention of its laws and regulations. Vessels flying the flag of States that are parties to a relevant regional fisheries management organization but operate in contravention of the conservation and management measures adopted by that organization and by which the States are bound.

Unreported fishing refers to fishing which have not been reported at all or misreported, to the relevant national authority or to the regional fisheries management organization (if in their area of competence).

Unregulated fishing corresponds to in areas or for fish stocks in relation to which there are no applicable conservation or management measures and where such fishing activities are conducted in a manner inconsistent with State responsibilities for the conservation of living marine resources under international law.

Why is IUU fishing a problem?
In many maritime regions of the world, IUU fishing has massively contributed to the depletion of fish stocks, especially in developing countries’ coastal waters. For example, off the coast of West Africa it accounts for an estimated 40% of all fish caught and thereby causes revenue losses of around $1.3 bn every year.

IUU fishing is not only fatal for the survival of fish species but also harms many lower income coastal communities and law-abiding fishers that suffer reduced fishing opportunities. Additionally, it is also often associated with corruption, human rights and labor abuses, both on fishing vessels and in the supply chain.

There are many reasons why people started to engage in IUU fishing, one of them being that it is very profitable (approx. $10-24 bn annually), hard to combat and even fostered by several factors:

Fishing overcapacity: current marine catch could be achieved with approximately half of the current global fishing fleet. Quotas are falling, but not the capacity of ships.
Lack of regulation in certain sea areas. Beyond the 200 nautical miles of coastal states, the ocean becomes a common heritage whose management does not depend on any specific responsibility.
Little surveillance, limited sanctions, corruption of administrations, weak governance of certain states with, in addition, the inadequate or ineffective enforcement of national and international regulations in areas where there is no law.
Certain tax mechanisms (tax havens, etc.) also create a breeding ground for illegal operators. For example, the practice of using a flag of convenience (FOC) relies on fishermen not registering their vessels in the shipping company’s home state but operate their vessels under the flag of another state with less stringent regulations or ineffective control.
Distorted subsidy schemes: Capture fisheries already stagnated in the early 1990s which is why many governments have implemented subsidy schemes to protect local fish supplies and employment in the sector.
Set up of fisheries control structures are costly and complex, many developing countries are not able to provide them.
False estimation of stock sizes by states and/or fisheries management organizations. Based on the assumption that less fish is being caught than is in fact the case, experts overestimate the size of the stock and set the following year’s catch quotas too high, potentially entrenching and accelerating the overexploitation of the stock.
Where does IUU fishing occur?
In general, IUU fishing is mainly practiced in countries in which it can done virtually with impunity as in the coastal waters of many developing countries, or within internationally shared high seas waters. After West Africa, the Western Central Pacific Ocean is the region with the highest rate of IUU fishing worldwide (34% of the total catch). The Arafura Sea, which lies between Australia and Indonesia, is also very severely affected. A similar situation exists in the Northwest Pacific Ocean, especially in the West Bering Sea. Here, IUU fishing is mainly practiced by China and Russia and amounts to 33% of the catch. Fishermen engaged in IUU fishing tend to target species which are already overexploited by legal fishing or which are subject to restrictions for fisheries management purposes (e.g. high-value species such as cod, salmon, trout, lobster and prawns).  

Illicit fishing operations rely on a range of tactics and loopholes in international law to get their products to market. Ports known for lax enforcement or limited inspection capacity are a prime pathway for unethical fishermen and companies to move their catch from ship to market. The destinations of these illicitly caught fish are often the largest seafood import countries, namely the US, Japan and the EU. Studies suggest that up to one third of wild caught seafood imported into the US comes from IUU vessels.
How are fishing activities monitored and controlled?
MCS stands for “Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance”, and it refers to the suite of mechanisms and activities used to monitor and regulate fishing. The focus in modern fisheries management is mainly on economic control through the control of fishing capacity, fishing effort and the allocation of catch quotas and temporal/spatial access to resources. Monitoring is taking place through the use of vessel monitoring systems (VMS), observer programs, catch documentation schemes and inspections of vessels in port and at sea.
What efforts are undertaken to prevent IUU fishing?
Several activities to minimize and eliminate IUU fishing are taken on many different organizational levels. Two examples are the voluntary FAO Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate IUU Fishing (PSMA) and the equally named binding EU Regulation which entered into force in 2010 and entails that:

Only marine fisheries products validated as legal by the competent flag state or exporting state can be imported to or exported from the EU
IUU vessel list and countries list that turn a blind eye to illegal fishing activities have no market access
European rogue operators are penalized proportionate to the economic value of their catch
In 2016, the US government officially established the Seafood Import Monitoring Program to address IUU fishing products entering the market. They use a list of species which are identified as vulnerable to illegal fishing and fraud. Imports of these products must have traceability systems in place to document and track the legal origin of the seafood from catch to first point of sale in the US.

Regional fishery management organizations (RFMO) also engage in finding solutions to end IUU fishing. They use blacklists which include details of vessels which at some point have attempted to land IUU fish at an RFMO port. This “name and shame” policy makes it more difficult for IUU vessels to find ports where they can land their catches.

Several NGOs, have also uncove­red valuable information, providing assistance towards arrests and raising general awareness about IUU fishing. One is the Global Fishing Watch, which identifies fishing boats by analyzing Automatic Identification Signals (AIS, transponder that must be carried by all big boats) and then combining AIS data with other datasets and machine learning to monitor fishing and other activities. Technological progress also helps to develop more effective tools to combat IUU fishing. Ocean-going drones can cruise the ocean for a year at a time, offering a cost-effective solution for assessing fish stocks and patrolling remote areas.

Overall, more transparency and traceability is needed and demanded by consumers and government agencies to eliminate IUU fishing. This requires strong public-private collaboration.

What is the link to insurance?
A case published by the sea conservation group Oceana provides an example of the links between IUU fishing and insurance: In April of 2015, the Thunder, a trawler well known to Interpol and enforcement agencies around the world, famously and bizarrely sunk off the coast of São Tomé after being chased for 110 days by vessels operated by the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. Following the sinking incident, the owner of the Thunder also reportedly tried to file an insurance claim.

Insuring vessels that participate in or support IUU fishing can expose insurers to several risks including an increased likelihood of claims, an increased possibility of association with other crimes, increased exposure to insurance fraud and legal liabilities as well as losses due to reputational damage by association.
What is the role of insurers in combating IUU fishing?
  Marine Insurance industry needs to play its part in achieving a more sustainable environment and supporting the action against IUU fishing is an important step the industry has taken 
– Capt. Rahul Khanna, AGCS Global Head of Marine Risk Consulting –
The insurance industry is not the most visibly influential sector, but it is woven into the fabric of business worldwide from transportation and food to automotive and energy, and every industry in between. Property & Causality insurance plays an essential role in international commerce. Without insurance, fishing companies may face enormous financial losses should an accident occur.

To succeed in this sector, the industry has to look beyond today to the future, to identify the key risks and challenges of tomorrow and develop appropriate mitigation. The topic of IUU fishing is gaining momentum due to the far-reaching consequences and negative impact on the biodiversity and human well-being. Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty joined the Oceana initiative and implements solutions that can eliminate IUU fishing in our insurance portfolio as well as raise awareness about this issue. Risk management solutions and effective due-diligence procedures integrated in the relevant underwriting processes help to reduce the risk of insuring vessels or companies that are acting contrary to agreed international governance frameworks and international law covering IUU fishing.

The following link opens the “Guidelines to control or mitigate the risk of insuring vessels and companies associated with illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing” by the Oceana initiative. It provides very useful recommendations for risk factors assessments, mitigation options and an “IUU fishing risk assessment checklist” which can be used by underwriters, risk managers, agents, brokers and other relevant parties within the marine insurance industry:
""",
###Article 250
"""
15 May 2023 - Each year, illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing strips an estimated $26-50 billion USD from the global economy. Accounting for one in every five fish caught around the world, IUU fishing undermines sustainable fisheries management and the livelihoods of fishers who are playing by the rules. Governments have agreed on a robust set of measures to end IUU fishing. In a statement out today, a coalition of leaders in the seafood sector call on governments to turn those commitments into action, and reaffirmed their 2021 statement on traceability and port state measures.

Members of the coalition—the Global Dialogue on Seafood Traceability (GDST), Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI), Global Tuna Alliance (GTA), International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF), Sea Pact, and Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS)—are working with their supply chain partners to identify and combat IUU fishing. These efforts are hindered, however, by the failure of governments to provide basic information about the identities and activities of vessels in their fleets. Governments must do their part by sharing the information that both companies and other governments need to identify vessels involved in illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, and establishing robust port controls that prevent those vessels from unloading and selling their catch.

Fortunately, there are already mechanisms by which governments can take action. The Agreement on Port State Measures (PSMA), for instance, is a binding international agreement that works to prevent, deter, and eliminate IUU fishing by preventing vessels fishing illegally from entering ports and landing their catch. Since entering into force in 2016, 74 States and the European Union are now Parties to the Agreement.

“By ratifying the PSMA, governments send a powerful message that they are committed to safeguarding our ocean and protecting the livelihoods of those who depend on sustainable fisheries,” said Ambassador Peter Thomson, UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for the Ocean and Co-Chair of Friends of Ocean Action. “Now, we need robust, coordinated, and consistent implementation of the PSMA to achieve the Agreement’s goals. Regional cooperation, in particular, can be a key strategy to deter those who exploit marine fisheries unlawfully.”

Specifically, the coalition recognizes the significant opportunities for action in Pacific waters, particularly among the economies of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). With 21 member economies representing over 60% of global GDP, APEC holds immense potential to drive change in combating illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing. Currently, 14 APEC Economies have ratified the PSMA, and China has expressed its intention to do so by 2025. By uniting their efforts, these countries can affect change at a scale that ensures regional fisheries management organizations and all ports are equipped with the necessary tools and resources to effectively implement the PSMA.

The statement highlights specific actions that APEC nations can take. These actions include sharing vessel and port information through established global and regional platforms, as well as collaborating with regional fisheries management organizations to operationalize consistent Port State Measures across the Pacific.

The upcoming G7 Hiroshima Summit in Japan, taking place next week, serves as a significant opportunity to initiate a dialogue. Regional coordination, strong commitments to transparency and Port State Measures, and efforts by the seafood sector can help eliminate illegal fishing from the Pacific.

QUOTES FROM COALITION LEADERS
“Government implemention of PSMA and Global Information Exchange, in conjunction with the seafood industry’s implementation of interoperable digital traceability, is the key to eliminating IUU fishing and validating the legality of what is harvested and traded throughout global seafood supply chains.” Greg Brown, Executive Director, GDST

“GSSI, as one of the largest precompetitive collaborations in the world representing the full seafood value chain, has as its mission the need for more sustainable seafood for everyone. Within this, we and our global partners recognize that seafood can be a driver for good in a myriad of ways. This includes combating IUU fishing. The importance of eradicating IUU is clear, both from environmental and sustainable fisheries perspectives, as well as the potential of human rights abuses that illegal fishing is too often associated with. GSSI supports the coalition's efforts of continuing to call upon governments and supply chain actors to take meaningful action toward the elimination of IUU fishing.” Lisa Goché, Interim Executive Director, GSSI

"The GTA is committed to avoiding illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (IUU) products, which is an essential part of the backbone of our 5-year strategy. We are proud of being part of this coalition, and we look forward to continuing working with all our partners to improve the current fishing practices. It is as simple as sustainable fisheries mean sustainable businesses." Albert Arthur, Director of Outreach and Engagement, GTA

“The global seafood sector has shown it is ready to be part of the solution to the challenge of IUU fishing. At ISSF, we are working to put an end to IUU activities in the world’s tuna fisheries through our conservation measures for seafood companies and vessels, best practices research, and advocacy outreach. We urge the governments to act now toward concrete action in this collaborative fight.” Susan Jackson, President, ISSF

“As a collaboration of middle supply chain seafood companies, Sea Pact is committed to combating IUU fishing. Our efforts include members’ individual responsible sourcing commitments as part of our membership requirements, supporting RFMO advocacy efforts calling for improved monitoring and observer coverage, as well as funding and engaging efforts on regional adoption of electronic monitoring systems to ensure legality of harvested fish. Additionally, we joined this coalition to further engage anti-IUU efforts.” Sam Grimley, Executive Director, Sea Pact

“SeaBOS remains committed to eliminating IUU fishing. We have a tool kit outlining governance of our own operations and supply chains, advancing traceability, and external reporting and accountability. In addition, our voluntary procurement actions provide ways to address IUU fishing in supply chains.” Martin Exel, Managing Director, SeaBOS

Media contact
Gemma Parkes: Communications Lead, Friends of Ocean Action and Ocean Action Agenda, World Economic Forum, on gpa@weforum.org or +41 79 305 2977

For more information
These leaders in the seafood sector, facilitated by the Stanford Center for Ocean Solutions and the World Economic Forum’s Ocean Action Agenda, have come together to create a future in which global seafood supply chains are transparent, support sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, and foster healthy marine ecosystems. It comprises the following six groups:

The Global Dialogue on Seafood Traceability (GDST) was initiated in 2017 as a global dialogue to create the first-ever global seafood industry traceability standards. By 2022, it was fully established as a global partnership and participation organization—dedicated to the adoption and implementation of interoperable digital traceability throughout fishery and aquaculture supply chains. GDST Standards, Verification Tests, Implementation Tools, Adoption Support Services, and partnership information are available at https://traceability-dialogue.org

The Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) is a public-private partnership of over 100 retailers, food service companies, seafood supply chain companies, NGOs, and international organizations working together to accelerate the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Through its strong relationship with the FAO, GSSI is uniquely positioned to support its Partners in drive forward more sustainable seafood for everyone.

The Global Tuna Alliance (GTA) is an independent group of over 50 retailers and tuna supply chain companies that are committed to realising harvest strategies for tuna fisheries, avoidance of IUU products, improved traceability as well as environmental sustainability, and progressing work on human rights in tuna fisheries. Over 30% of the world’s tuna passes through GTA Partners.

The International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF)—a global coalition of seafood companies, fisheries experts, scientific and environmental organizations, and the vessel community—promotes science-based initiatives for long-term tuna conservation, FAD management, bycatch mitigation, marine ecosystem health, capacity management and illegal fishing prevention. Helping global tuna fisheries meet and maintain sustainability criteria to achieve the Marine Stewardship Council certification standard is ISSF's ultimate objective. To learn more, visit iss-foundation.org, and follow ISSF on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, and LinkedIn.

Sea Pact is a group of leading North American seafood companies dedicated to driving stewardship and continuous improvement of social, economic, and environmental responsibility throughout global seafood supply chains. Sea Pact members focus their collaborative efforts and project funding around sector-based sustainability improvements, responsible aquaculture education and advocacy, and social responsibility.

Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS) is a unique collaboration between scientists and seafood companies across the wild capture, aquaculture and feed production sectors, leading a global transformation towards sustainable seafood production, and improving ocean health. The collaboration has been coordinated by the Stockholm Resilience Centre at Stockholm University. Together, SeaBOS companies represent over 10% of the world’s seafood production and comprise over 600 subsidiary companies globally.
""",

###Article 252
"""
cuadorian authorities seized a Chinese fishing vessel suspected of illegal activity near the Galapagos in 2017 and found 300 tons of fish onboard, mostly protected shark species. Sri Lanka and India have been at odds for many years over illegal fishing in the Palk Strait, with Sri Lankan authorities seizing 100 Indian trawlers in 2021 and regularly detaining crew for illegal activities. And, in a first-of-its-kind, massive collaboration effort between a dozen countries, nonprofits and Interpol, an infamous illegal fishing vessel was finally captured in 2018 by Indonesian authorities after a two-year hunt, for poaching several hundred tons of endangered species. 

These three cases, and the hundreds more occurring every year, demonstrate how fisheries – and how we regulate them – are an increasingly important story. The industry has a significant global importance: FAO found in a 2020 report that fisheries employed almost 39 million people and generated more than US$164 billion in exports in 2018. Yet despite that, more than a third of fish stocks are at biologically unsustainable levels, meaning they may be at risk of disappearing entirely. But the report offers cause for hope, too: Intensively managed fisheries, those with clear regulations and enforcement, have seen their fish stocks bounce back to sustainable levels. 

Still, overfishing remains rampant, and its drivers are many and complex. One of them in particular – illegal, unregulated and unreported (IUU) fishing – has been and will continue to be a major source of discussion at the international level. In their FAQ on IUU Fishing, the Pew Charitable Trusts cites a landmark study which estimates that illegal and unreported fishing accounts for 20% of the global seafood catch and costs the economy up to US$23 billion annually. It also has a large impact on marine life, fishers’ livelihoods and labor rights in coastal communities around the world.  

To assist journalists in covering this hot topic, EJN hosted a series of webinars exploring IUU fishing in Ecuador and other Andean countries in South America; the fishing industry and impact of IUU fishing in Japanese waters; the global context of fisheries subsidies and the emerging role of artificial intelligence in countering oceanic crime.  

This tipsheet uses these webinars as a starting point and goes beyond, presenting a new and in-depth EJN resource for journalists. For those looking to start reporting on ocean issues, or experienced journalists looking for new ideas, keep reading to learn the basics of IUU fishing and how you can start reporting on these issues in your region. 

Starting at the beginning: What is IUU fishing? 
Illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing is often used as a single phrase, but the fishing activities that are counted as IUU are extremely diverse. And although IUU fishing is undesirable, it’s not necessarily unsustainable or dangerous for marine ecosystems and it’s also not necessarily morally wrong. These nuances can be challenging, so let’s dive into what each component of IUU fishing actually means. 

Illegal fishing 
Mauricio Castrejon, a specialist in artisanal fisheries and marine protected areas based in Ecuador, spoke at our webinar on illegal fishing in Andean countries and explained exactly what makes some fishing illegal: “Fishing is classified as illegal when it isn’t authorized, it is done against conservation and management measures or it breaks national and international laws,” he said, translated from Spanish. In practice, this could mean vessels are fishing without the necessary license(s); operating in areas where fishing is banned, such as a protected reserve; utilizing prohibited gear; catching more fish than their quota allows; and/or catching prohibited species, according to The Pew Charitable Trusts. 

Illegal fishing is not automatically unsustainable or bad for fish stocks. Legal fishing can also collapse fisheries or cause species extinction, especially when countries set quotas that are too high. And in some cases, the law may be too strict and/or not consider the full scope of community needs in the region. For example, Indigenous communities may continue utilizing traditional fishing practices or fish in areas that are not allowed, even though they are not contributing to overfishing. 

Unreported fishing 
The second piece of IUU fishing – unreported – means the fishing activities are not reported or are misreported to the appropriate fisheries management authorities. Some fishing vessels don’t report or misreport because they’re fishing illegally, such as by catching more of a certain species than the quota allows or catching species that are not permitted to be caught. This type of fishing is both illegal and unreported, but unreported fishing is not always illegal. In some places, for example, vessels may only be required to report the fish they are going to sell, meaning any fish caught and discarded – such as non-target species or juveniles – does not need to be reported.  

Reporting accurate fish catch numbers is important because it helps governments set accurate quotas. Without information on how many fish we’ve taken from a particular population, it’s hard for enforcement agencies to know how much vessels can continue fishing without depleting the population to an unsustainable level. Sometimes, countries can’t monitor their fish stocks adequately because they lack resources to do so and therefore don’t know what their baselines should be. But make no mistake: Even when governments have accurate information, sometimes the quotas they set are still too high and lead to overfishing.  

There’s also another side to unreported fishing, beyond its importance for commercial fishing: Artisanal and subsistence fishers who primarily catch fish to feed their own families. This type of fishing often occurs close to shore and the fish is taken home for dinner, where it’s eaten before anyone has a chance to count or monitor it. While this is technically unreported fishing, it may or may not be illegal depending on local regulations. And because they lack the money and resources of large vessels, fishing bans and rule changes often affect these fishers more, especially when governments don’t collect community input. This is another good example of a time when the law may not always capture the full scope of an issue. 

Unregulated fishing 
The final piece – unregulated – means several different things. First, it’s important to note that almost all commercial fishing vessels are regulated to some degree. Even if a vessel is operating somewhere without direct fishing regulations, other international agencies, such as the International Maritime Organization (IMO), can impose legally binding rules about other aspects of ocean activity that still apply.  

For example, the IMO, which is responsible for safe international shipping, requires that ships of a certain size carry an Automatic Identification System (AIS) device, which broadcasts a ship’s position, course, speed and other information to other ships to avoid collisions. All fishing vessels meeting the size requirement are subject to this rule, regardless of their nationality, type of fishing activity or location. But it’s very common for vessels to turn off their AIS devices for hours, days or weeks at a time to avoid detection while illegally fishing, maybe because they’re entering an area where fishing is banned, utilizing prohibited gear or engaging in other illegal activities. Vessels have other tactics to avoid regulation, as well. They may carry the Indonesian flag, for instance, but later change to a Thai flag in order to move more freely in a particular area or hide from authorities. Or, they may not fly a flag at all.

Using the phrase “IUU fishing” as a journalist 
It’s important to note that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are distinct from each other, but they do overlap in some key ways. If the law says vessels don’t have to report bycatch or juveniles that are thrown back, that fishing is still unreported, but the vessels are operating legally, for example. Or in another case, a vessel may be operating somewhere where no fisheries management organization has authority, so they lack regulations and aren’t breaking any laws, and the fishing is unregulated but not illegal. These thorny intersections are part of the reason why it’s so difficult to fully understand the impact of IUU fishing on our marine ecosystems and to prevent it. 

Journalists should pay attention to these nuances and refrain from replicating common biases about illegal fishing in your stories. Instead of falling back on buzzword terms, say what you mean and investigate the whole story: If vessels or fishers are breaking the law, how are they breaking it and why? Does the law match up-to-date fisheries science and take into account the needs of Indigenous and artisanal fishing communities? Who made the law and why – and how long ago? There are both bad laws and bad fishing practices out there, and it’s your job to figure out who’s who. 

When looking at government quotas, journalists should be asking how data collection actually works. Does the law mandate that vessels report any fish they catch, including bycatch or juveniles that were thrown back? How does the reporting infrastructure work, and what are the mechanisms to avoid forged data? How are scientists in your region utilizing that data, and how does it inform quotas set by fisheries management organizations? Data collection may seem dull at first, but it’s the foundation of fisheries science and can tell you a lot about how conservation and other management measures are working in your region. 

Why jurisdiction and governance matter 
To understand why IUU fishing is so hard to combat, we need to talk about jurisdiction. Jurisdiction in the ocean can be challenging – after all, it covers more than 70% of the earth's surface. Global agreements state that each country's national jurisdiction extends 200 nautical miles off their coastline, in what's called their Exclusive Economic Zone, or EEZ. Any farther, and it becomes the "high seas," meaning no one country's rules or regulations apply. 

Although a country’s EEZ gives them the right to exploit or conserve any resources found within the water, on the sea floor or under the sea floor, it does not give them the right to prohibit or limit navigation of foreign vessels or flights from international aircraft in the airspace above their EEZ. For example, Kenya could not prohibit Tanzanian boats or planes from entering Kenya’s EEZ – but it does stipulate what they can and cannot do there. (On the other hand, a country’s official territory extends 12 nautical miles out from the shore, and they can prohibit other nations from accessing or passing through their “territorial waters,” just as if it were land.) 

Within the EEZ, countries generally have ministries or government agencies responsible for developing and enforcing fisheries management measures, such as quotas, marine protected areas or species prohibitions. For example, in Chile, the Undersecretariat for Fisheries and Aquaculture sits within the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism. It regulates aquaculture, small-scale fishing, industrial fishing, recreational fishing and more. There are also eight regional directorates across the country that implement and enforce the rules on a local level. (Chile is a notable example of a country that has made a lot of headway in protecting their fisheries and ocean, and you can read more about it here.) 

Outside of the EEZs, the high seas account for two-thirds of the world’s ocean, and typically, the fishing that occurs there takes a “free-for-all" approach. However, there are regulatory bodies managing what happens on the high seas: Regional Fisheries Management Organizations, or RFMOs. RFMOs consist of representatives from relevant countries in the region, both coastal states themselves and other countries interested in fishing in those waters. Countries that send their fishing fleets to other areas and participate in the relevant RFMO there are called “distant water fishing nations.”

Every RFMO is different, and its mandate is set by an international agreement between member countries. An RFMO could focus specifically on a certain type of fish, such as tuna, while others may focus more broadly on regulating all fishing activities in the area. Typically, though, RFMOs focus on “commercially valuable species,” meaning those that are intended for human and/or animal use.  

It’s also important to note that not all fisheries management bodies are RFMOs. An RFMO only has jurisdiction over fisheries – not any other marine life – and they don’t necessarily have a conservation focus. But organizations like CCAMLR, or the Commission on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, are also international fisheries management organizations, but with a different mandate. CCAMLR was established through an international convention in 1982 with the mission to conserve Antarctic marine life. This includes regulating the fishing that occurs within their jurisdiction, but also includes a lot more. It has 26 official members (25 countries plus the European Union) and another 10 who have agreed to its provisions. Is your country one of them? Understanding your country’s own regulations, their participation in any regional RFMOs and signing of international conventions like CCAMLR is an important part of reporting on fisheries. 

RFMOs and other fisheries management organizations often conflict with Indigenous communities, especially on activities like whaling. The International Whaling Commission (IWC) recognizes the difference between what they call “aboriginal subsistence whaling” and commercial whaling (which is banned) and allows several member countries to conduct subsistence whale hunts: Greenland (which is part of Denmark), Russia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Alaska in the United States. This environmental justice angle – how rules do or do not take Indigenous cultural traditions and livelihoods into account – is an important aspect to consider when reporting on all fisheries.  

Notably, Japan withdrew from the IWC in 2019 in order to resume commercial whaling, and Norway, while remaining a member of the Commission, has continued to kill whales regularly after lodging a formal objection to the ban in 1993. Issues of enforcement remain a contentious topic at the international level as organizations like the IWC do not have the authority they may require in order to prevent the extinction of whale species or other marine life.

Any decisions made by an RFMO – for instance, establishing catch limits or fishing seasons, or other regulatory measures – reflect the geopolitical and socioeconomic agendas of the member countries. As a result, it’s often difficult to reach agreements and decisions sometimes don’t rely on the latest science. These same conflicts happen at the international level, too, and can make it extremely difficult to reach a consensus or develop international regulations, not to mention report on it.  

If the international regulatory infrastructure wasn’t complicated enough, there is also often national legislation that applies to vessels navigating the high seas. In the United States, for example, the High Seas Fishing Compliance Act was signed into law in 1996 and requires that all commercial fishing vessels registered in the country have a permit to fish on the high seas. Part of the requirement to hold this permit includes compliance with the relevant international agreements, such as those created by CCAMLR or the Law of the Sea. Vessels are also required to report their fishing efforts to the appropriate U.S. agency. 

To better understand their local context, journalists can investigate how their country’s fisheries are governed. How does your fisheries ministry or agency regulate within your EEZ? Who are the members of the RFMO in your region, and what are their agendas? What are the major issues up for debate within the RFMO? How does the RFMO(s), your country’s fisheries agency and/or other management bodies govern – or fail to govern – the region’s fisheries? What other international treaties and federal laws has your country signed related to fisheries or ocean conservation? Understanding how governance affects your region’s fisheries is an important first step to reporting on these issues. 

Solutions journalism for IUU fishing 
1) Preventing IUU fishing through legislation 
Some of the world’s largest seafood consumers – the United States, the European Union and Japan – have all enacted laws banning IUU-sourced seafood from entering their markets, with Japan passing it most recently in 2020. Along with bans on illegally caught seafood, India can’t export shrimp to the United States because the country has not mandated Turtle Exclusion Devices (TEDs) in their trawl nets, costing them $300 million annually if not resolved. (TEDs reduce the chance that turtles will be caught as bycatch.) 

Indian journalist Binu Karunakaran explored this issue in a recent EJN-supported story on fisheries in Kerala. In the piece, he quoted KS Srinivas, the chairman of the Marine Products Export Development Authority in Kochi, India: “If you engage in illegal, unreported, unregulated fishing, most countries don’t want to buy from you,” he said. 

Karunakaran reports that other countries are moving faster than India to resolve the problem: Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand are taking steps toward certifying their fisheries to comply with new legislation being enacted in Japan and elsewhere.

This type of legislation – where countries won’t allow both illegal and/or unsustainable fish catch in their markets – can create a major economic incentive to regulate and conserve marine ecosystems rather than lose export markets. In the European Union, for example, the European Commission issues ‘yellow cards’ to countries “turning a blind eye” to illegal fishing, and if those countries don’t rectify the issue, they are given a ‘red card’ and their products are banned within the EU. For example, as of February 2022, the Commission has given red cards to Cambodia, Comoros and St. Vincent and the Grenadines; countries with yellow cards include Panama, Cameroon, Vietnam, Liberia and others. (You can check country status through the EU IUU Fishing Coalition’s online tracker.) 

If you’re a journalist from a country with a yellow or red card from the European Commission, there are several interesting angles you can investigate: What’s the story behind the carding – what did your country do – or fail to do – in regard to illegal fishing? Where does your country export seafood and fish, if it can’t do business with the EU? What alternative markets do they use? How does it affect your country’s economy or the livelihoods of small-scale fishers?  

Kenzo Kaifu, a researcher at Chuo University in Japan, spoke at our July webinar on IUU fishing in Japan on the importance of anti-IUU legislation, focusing on one particular case study: The glass eel. Recent scarcity has driven up the price of this popular species, and it’s becoming more and more difficult for fishers to legally catch them. Without regulation, IUU fishing would deplete the glass eel’s populations and continue the cycle. However, enforcing the new law means glass eels in Japanese waters can only be fished by licensed fishers who report the exact amount caught to the appropriate authorities. Imported eels also need to be legally registered in order to be sold. Although eels are still caught and smuggled illegally, strong enforcement of the law makes it less profitable (and more difficult) to illegally catch the species, incentivizing legal fishing activities. 

Japan isn’t the only country dealing with illegal eel business. EJN grantee Daniela Quintero Diaz reported in February 2022 on eel fishing in the Dominican Republic, where baby eels are caught and sold in a murky, million-dollar market. Read the piece.

Across 84 seafood stocks in Japan, 43 were assessed in a 2021 report to have a biologically favorable status (or sustainable population levels), Kaifu explains. Although it’s always difficult to know if illegal activity has truly decreased, political and economic pressure is a powerful tool to make governments act.  

In your own countries, journalists can investigate if your policymakers are planning to enact similar laws against illegal and unsustainable fishing, or if there are already bills in discussion in your legislative body. Do nearby countries, or countries with similar fisheries challenges, have legislation that your country could learn from? What makes a successful anti-IUU law – things like allocated spending, strong enforcement, local and national partnerships or something else? And on the flip side, how are other countries’ legislation impacting fishers in your region, like Karunakaran explored in India? What do fishers need from government agencies in order to make a change?  

2) Preventing IUU fishing through monitoring 
Across the world, Ecuador is dealing with a different – but equally challenging – IUU fishing problem. In late June 2020, 300 Chinese fishing vessels parked themselves along the edge of Ecuador’s EEZ, close to the incredibly biodiverse Galapagos Marine Reserve. But Chinese vessels were never directly caught breaking the law and entering Ecuador’s EEZ, and Ecuadorian authorities could not prove they were there. 

This issue is not new. Illegal fishing in the Galapagos has been on the rise in recent years, as it has become a key stop on a larger transnational illegal fishing route that includes Argentina, Chile and Peru. The Galapagos Marine Reserve is one of the most productive marine ecosystems in the world and fishing activities are banned, which has allowed wildlife populations to thrive. As a result, the Reserve is experiencing what is known as the spillover effect – where populations rebound to such an extent that they leave the reserve and live in other nearby areas. This is good for marine ecosystems, but it’s also good for IUU fishing.

So, that brings us back to how we know where those vessels were, even though they had their AIS devices turned off: At the time, China’s ambassador to Ecuador said the ships did not break the law, and Ecuador’s authorities agreed. But a few months later, a data analytics company called HawkEye 360, based in the United States, released new data that changed the picture, reported by Elizabeth Claire Alberts for Mongabay in October 2020.  

Unidentified ships did enter Ecuador’s EEZ during the time period in question, the data shows, and did so at the same time that many Chinese ships stopped broadcasting their position. Now, this does not automatically prove that these ships are one and the same. However, it provided much more information than physical monitoring (by air or by boat) or AIS tracking could have alone. How did they do it?  

The Mongabay article explains that HawkEye used satellites and partnered with a French aerospace company to track vessels through their radio frequencies. These radio signals come from different types of navigational radar systems, like satellite phones. There are limitations, though – this type of monitoring can’t identify the ships’ nationality, or what they’re doing, but still may make it harder for illegal fishing vessels to operate completely invisibly.

These stories from Japan, India and Ecuador present some possible solutions that other countries could implement as part of their IUU fishing mitigation strategies, and journalists should look into their own governments’ plans. What is your government currently doing to prevent IUU fishing? What are the barriers or roadblocks to mitigation? What innovations are local researchers or NGOs developing? Is there a case study from another country that might serve as a model for your community? 

3) Preventing IUU fishing through artificial intelligence 
“Technology is part of the answer,” said Peter Horn, project director of international fisheries for The Pew Charitable Trusts, as part of our February 2021 webinar. He’s referring to current initiatives to use artificial intelligence to prevent illegal fishing – going a step beyond the monitoring and tracking conducted in Ecuador in 2020.  

Artificial intelligence (AI) is when machines can learn from experience, adjust to new information and perform human-like tasks. In some cases, AI can perform tasks more efficiently and accurately than humans (especially repetitive, detail-oriented tasks). In the case of illegal fishing, Horn believes AI could replace human ocean observers on vessels.  

Traditionally, human observers are trained individuals who spend weeks or months aboard vessels, checking for any illegal activity in order to report back to fisheries management organizations. They work long hours and can face dangerous conditions at sea, plus they’re also expensive, considered intrusive by fishers and hard to find in remote areas. If replaced with an AI monitoring system, the AI could automatically review footage, monitor vessel patterns, verify compliance with catch limits and bycatch discard standards and more. Because AI can process large volumes of data, it goes beyond what human science and observers can currently do.  

However, challenges exist with every kind of technology. Peter Stoett, the dean of social science and humanities at Ontario Tech University, noted in our webinar three major issues with artificial intelligence as an illegal fishing prevention tool: 

Accessibility: Governments and private companies are often unwilling to share data or unwilling to share it for free.  
Quality: Ensuring the reliability of the data is very difficult, especially when different countries and agencies use different methodologies and collection strategies.  
Sparsity: Sometimes, the data just isn’t available for a particular time period or in a particular region.

Journalists interested in how technology can be applied to combat IUU fishing can explore some of these important themes in their work. How could an AI monitoring system be implemented in your region – and what are its limitations? Does your RFMO or other fisheries regulatory body utilize human observers, and to what extent are they effective? What other technological advancements could be implemented as strategies to reduce IUU fishing? Who is working on these issues in your region and what barriers do they face, such as lack of funding or government interest?  

Finding the human-interest angle 
Because commercial vessels engaging in IUU fishing do not follow conservation rules, they are likely to extract more fish than is sustainable for the ecosystem – species that are endangered and juveniles, which haven’t had the chance to breed yet. This leaves much less available for small-scale or artisanal fishers, people who fish close to shore for their own food or livelihood and can’t compete with large commercial vessels. It also affects which kinds of fish or seafood are available, changing traditional diets and preventing people from accessing a primary food source. As a result, people may become food insecure or be forced to migrate elsewhere. These social dimensions of fisheries are an important story to be told, along with the scientific data. 

Artisanal and subsistence fishers and Indigenous fishing communities all face unique challenges within the fisheries industry. They are routinely outcompeted by large commercial vessels, who overfish their traditional waters and leave nothing behind. There are also exploitative business arrangements, where businesspeople own the fishing boats and gear, and therefore take most of the profits. Rule changes at the national level often lack community input, and fishers may find their traditional fishing practices suddenly illegal with no recourse or alternative livelihood. And often, fishers are not paid fairly: In the European Union, for example, a WWF report found that 43% of EU fishers earned below the national minimum wage in 2018. For EU fishers on smaller boats, under 12 meters in length, that figure is 70%.

Stories highlighting the environmental justice and socioeconomic aspects of overfishing and IUU are just as important as stories about disappearing marine life. Journalists should always be cognizant of these angles and strive to highlight this nuance and context in their reporting. IUU fishing is often linked to unsustainable, illegally caught seafood, but that’s not the only story that needs telling.  

In addition to its effects on local fishers and communities, IUU fishing is dangerous for the people doing it, as well. Karen McVeigh, the global development correspondent for The Guardian, spoke at our webinar about a 2020 story she published with co-journalist Febriana Firdaus. The piece centered on the Long Xing 629, a Chinese-owned fishing vessel that was illegally hunting for shark fins with a crew of 24 Indonesian sailors. When the ship returned to port, only 20 sailors remained, after facing 18-hour days, starvation and dehydration and seeing their fellow sailors’ bodies thrown overboard. 

Human trafficking and slavery at sea are rampant in the fisheries industry, and particularly present with illegal fishing because it’s already unregulated. Stoett, the dean from Ontario Tech University, estimated that more than 10,000 people every year are enslaved in the fishing industry. 

In 2016, the Associated Press won a Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for their 18-month long investigation into sea slavery in Southeast Asia. The first investigation was published in 2015, by reporters Robin McDowell, Margie Mason and Martha Mendoza, and it was called “Slaves may have caught the fish you bought.” 

The piece opens in Benjina, Indonesia, where enslaved Burmese fishing laborers were held in a locked cage, with only a few bites of food a day, until another fishing vessel in need of their services came to dock. The journalists demonstrated how that fish, caught by enslaved workers from Myanmar, made its way into supermarket chains in the United States, including Kroger, Walmart, Safeway and others. One source who fled enslavement said: “If Americans and Europeans are eating this fish, they should remember us … There must be a mountain of bones under the sea. ... The bones of the people could be an island, it’s that many.” 

After the investigation, more than 300 enslaved workers were rescued from Benjina, and AP continued to report those stories: Fishers returning home to long-lost families, how major companies like Nestle confirmed labor abuse among their suppliers after an investigation, and finally when then-U.S. President Barack Obama banned the import of any goods produced by enslaved workers into the United States. 

Of course, not every journalist has the resources of the Associated Press behind them, but it doesn’t mean you’re not able to make a difference when reporting on these issues. Sometimes the human-interest angle is about human rights and enslaved workers, but it can also focus on individual people’s struggles to feed their families or to make a living. Journalists can ask: Who is benefiting from illegal fishing, and who is being sidelined or abused? Where are companies cutting corners and allowing unsafe working conditions, pollution or overfishing? What is your government doing – or not doing – to ensure the fish that is exported from and imported into your country did not come from slavery? 

How to get started: Story themes, examples and resources 
IUU fishing is a global issue that has already started to take our global fishing stocks and oceans by storm. Understanding the interdisciplinary nature of this topic, and how it needs to be tackled on every front — whether it’s via human trafficking organizations or an AI ocean vessel locator — is critical to your ability to report on this issue effectively. It may be a global issue, but small reports can have large impacts. 

We’ve included some story themes, in-depth pieces on IUU fishing around the world and a long list of resources for you to keep reading and get started.  

Story themes 
Fisheries subsidies: Subsidies are payments made by public entities to the private sector that incentivize development, address inequity or social issues or address conservation concerns. For example, governments may incentivize farmers to conserve some of their land for pollinators with financial payments. Fisheries subsidies specifically involve support to the fisheries industry and are often promoted as efforts to modernize or equip small-scale fishers. Yet they often end up subsidizing overfishing by increasing a vessel’s capacity to fish to the point where they catch more than is environmentally sustainable. Subsidies can come in many forms, including gear, operating costs, fuel, vessel upgrades and more. Subsidies and IUU fishing are interconnected: Because subsidies are generally given indiscriminately – meaning the entire fleet has access to them, not just those who need them most, such as small-scale fishers – the big, commercial operations get even bigger and continue to overfish ecosystems. For instance, a subsidy to offset the price of fuel would be disproportionately more beneficial to a large vessel (where fuel accounts for a higher percentage of their overall costs) than to a smaller vessel (where wages are likely the biggest cost). If countries stopped subsidizing illegal activity by removing subsidies, it could create an economic incentive to fish legally by making it more costly to stay out at sea for long periods or travel long distances. Does your country have fisheries subsidies, and how do they work? Do they benefit small-scale fishers, or are they subsidizing industrial overfishing? Looking into these intersections can be a good way to localize your fisheries pieces. (For more information on fisheries subsidies, check out our May 2021 webinar and browse stories on the topic.)   
Transshipment: Transshipment is the transfer of fish or other marine wildlife from a fishing vessel to what’s called a “carrier vessel,” meaning an intermediary between the fishers and the buyers. It’s often used as an efficiency tool, to reduce the amount of time it takes for the fish to reach the market. But it also plays a major part in IUU fishing: Without effective monitoring and tracking, illegal transshipments where data is manipulated or obscured are increasingly common. Transshipment can also facilitate human rights violations by allowing ships to remain at sea for long periods of time without docking at a port, where they might be inspected. Many experts consider transshipment to be a missing link in understanding how the global IUU fishing industry operates, and it’s a major story journalists can start looking into. 
Trade routes: Understanding where fish comes from, who catches it and where it’s eventually sold and eaten is a major piece of the IUU fishing puzzle. Is your country part of an illegal fishing supply chain, either at the production or the consumption end? Who fishes in your country’s waters, and where do they sell that fish? IUU fishing is transnational by nature, and illegal fish can make several stops before it’s eventually consumed. Working with journalists in other countries to identify and track where shipments go after they’re caught can produce impactful journalism. 
The role of marine protected areas: In this tipsheet, we’ve discussed the potential value of successful marine protected areas in fostering productive fishing grounds outside the reserve. Journalists can investigate the marine protected areas in their country – if there are any – and what areas might benefit from being protected that aren’t already. There’s a lot to explore here: What are the political difficulties in your country to establishing marine protected areas? How could fishers and government work together to increase catch and prevent fish populations from declining? 
How international treaties could affect you: Along with the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdictions treaty underway at the United Nations, there are other international agreements regulating how the global fisheries industry operates. What treaties has your country signed, or not signed? How would the new BBNJ treaty affect fishing communities in your region? International regulation is a big topic, and it can be hard to see the threads linking what happens at the UN to what’s happening in your country’s waters. Identifying how a specific regulation or treaty could affect fishers on the ground is another way of localizing a big story for your regional audience. 
The role of advanced technology: One of the major solutions governments and organizations are investigating right now is advanced technology like artificial intelligence. But as mentioned in this tipsheet, technology isn’t a perfect solution: It can exacerbate inequality, rather than solve it, and it could remain largely inaccessible to smaller and poorer countries unless a methodology is developed to make it available. The ethics of artificial intelligence and advanced technology – both how it’s used and who uses it – is an important piece of this story.  
Other forms of oceanic crime: IUU fishing is part of a larger type of crime – crime that happens on the oceans, and there’s plenty more. Companies illegally dumping toxic chemicals and pollution; illegal sand and pebble mining eroding the seafloor; the illegal harvesting and destruction of coral reefs; transporting exotic and invasive species as part of the illegal wildlife trade; acoustic pollution and regulatory violations from shipping, drilling and military activity; and illegal shipping and smuggling of drugs, weapons and even people are just a few. There are a lot of stories to tell about illegal activity across – and deep within – the ocean, and journalists have a unique ability to shed light on them. 
""",

### Article 264
"""
The Department of Agriculture (DA) clarified that its recent order to suspend the importation of frozen fish excludes Philippine vessels that caught their haul outside the country.

The DA issued Memorandum Order (MO) No. 18 clarifying the guidelines governing a previous directive which temporarily halted the entry of frozen round scad (galunggong), bonito (tulingan) and mackerel (alumahan) from outside the country.

The agency said those fish caught by Philippine-registered fishing vessels with a valid distant water fishing permit are not considered “imported.”

Therefore, these are “subject to all import duties and taxes when the same is landed in duly designated fish landings and fish ports in the Philippines,” the memo dated April 26 said.
“Considering that fish caught by Philippine-flagged fishing vessel are not considered imported, this clarificatory guidelines [are] hereby issued,” it added.

Earlier this month, the DA promulgated MO No. 14 putting on hold the importation of these fishery products intended solely for canning and processing and for institutional buyers catering to the requirements of hotels and restaurants.

The issuance was done in response to several reports received by the agency that commodities were being diverted to wet markets to the detriment of local fisherfolk.

“The top commodities that are identified as prone to diversion [to local wet markets] are round scad, bonito and mackerel,” the order said.The suspension does not cover sourcing imported mackerel for canning purposes, as long as the volume is based on the sales of the canned product from the previous year plus an additional 10 percent for buffer.

Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) spokesperson Nazario Briguera said at that time the diversion of these fish varieties to wet markets is an illegal act that “could disrupt the supply and demand” and “would have a repercussion on the local fishery industry.”

Institutional buyers are allowed to source fish and fishery/aquatic products from abroad, but for canning and processing purposes only and when certified as necessary by the agriculture secretary to achieve food security. —Jordeene B. Lagare INQ
""",

### Article 289
"""
Two firefighters died while fighting a blaze aboard a Grimaldi roll-on/roll-off vessel berthed at Port Newark in New Jersey Wednesday night.

Emergency personnel from the Port of New York and New Jersey as well as the New York and Newark fire departments and the U.S. Coast Guard responded to a blaze aboard the Grande Costa d’Avorio that reportedly broke out at about 9:30 p.m. Wednesday.

The Grimaldi Group, the Italian company that owns the vessel, said in a statement that the fire erupted on the ro/ro vessel’s 10th deck as vehicles were being loaded. It said the vessel was carrying more than 1,200 new and used vehicles and 157 containers but there were no electric cars or hazardous materials on the Grande Costa d’Avorio.

“The crew of the vessel immediately activated the on-board fire suppression procedures while the local firefighting service were alerted, and their prompt response played a crucial role in containing and bringing the fire under control,” Grimaldi said.

Newark Fire Department Chief Rufus Jackson was quoted by The New York Times as saying emergency responders found five to seven vehicles on fire and that the flames quickly spread to the 11th and 12th decks of the car carrier. The fire was still smoldering Thursday morning.

According to media reports, firefighters inside the vessel were pushed back by the intense heat. The two firefighters were lost as their fellow responders were retreating. Their bodies were later recovered.

In a midmorning news conference Thursday, Newark Mayor Ras Baraka identified the deceased city firefighters as Augusto Acabou, 45, and Wayne Brooks Jr., 49, who “without hesitation gave their lives.”

“I saw the best of our city last night, firefighters struggling through intense heat and unimaginable conditions to try to extinguish a fire that had the potential to cause … major damage to not just the cargo ship but impact the operation of the entire port,” Baraka said. “More than that, I saw Newark’s bravest struggle with every ounce of their strength and every measure of their training to rescue and save their brothers who had been trapped. There are no words to describe the courage I saw.”


Fritz Frage, Newark’s public safety director, said another five firefighters were injured as they struggled to bring the blaze under control.

Built in 2011, the Grande Costa d’Avorio operates with 28 crewmembers, Grimaldi said.

“At this time, it is not known how the fire started but the Company will undertake a full investigation with close cooperation with all relevant authorities,” Grimaldi said in its statement.

In March 2019, the Grimaldi ro/ro vessel Grande America sank off the coast of France after cargo caught fire. The Africa-bound vessel was carrying 2,210 vehicles and 365 containers.

Other companies’ car carriers have experienced devastating ship fires as well.

In February 2022, MOL Ship Management Singapore confirmed that Felicity Ace had sunk off the coast of the Portuguese Azores in the Atlantic Ocean about two weeks after a fire broke out aboard the vessel.

Felicity Ace was en route from Emden, Germany, to the Port of Davisville in Rhode Island. It was carrying an estimated 4,000 luxury vehicles, including Bentleys, Porsches and Lamborghinis.

In June 2020, a fire broke out aboard the Norwegian car carrier Höegh Xiamen after it had completed loading operations at Jaxport in Florida.

In May 2021, a fire erupted inside the wreckage of the Golden Ray, the Hyundai Glovis-owned ro/ro vessel that capsized in Georgia’s St. Simons Sound in September 2019.

The National Transportation Safety Board eventually determined that accident was caused by “the chief officer’s error entering ballast quantities into the stability calculation program, which led to his incorrect determination of the vessel’s stability.”

Unfortunately, fires aboard container ships are not that unusual either. That includes the NYK Delphinus, which was crippled by an engine room fire in May 2021 as it was en route from the Port of Vancouver in Canada to the Port of Oakland in California.

Still, more common is the loss of containers overboard. The World Shipping Council issued a report that said on average 1,382 containers were lost at sea between 2018 and 2019. That average later was blown out of the water. More than 2,676 containers were lost in five accidents in just two months, between Nov. 30, 2020, and the end of Jan. 31, 2021.

Click here for more American Shipper/FreightWaves stories by Senior Editor Kim Link-Wills.

The post 2 firefighters killed in car carrier blaze at Port Newark appeared first on FreightWaves.
""",

### Article 290
"""
Conservationists who favor a 10-knot speed limit in Gulf of Mexico waters where the highly endangered Rice's Whale is found say that a recently passed Santa Rosa County Commission resolution in opposition to the proposal is not only misguided, but inaccurate.

Christian Wagley, a community organizer with Healthy Gulf out of Pensacola, attempted to make commissioners aware at their Thursday regular meeting that the resolution they were about to vote upon contained what he believed to be a blatant untruth. The statement at issue was: "Whereas considerable effort is also given to ensure real-time monitoring of whale activity in the Gulf of Mexico and to prevent whale strikes ...."

"As it's written now, that statement is false. It's not true," Wagley told the board. "I don't think you would knowingly pass a resolution that has false information."

Commissioners voted 5-0 to pass the resolution without amending the wording.

Chairman Colten Wright argued before the vote that "months and months and months" of research he'd done indicated efforts have been undertaken to monitor the whereabouts of the Rice's Whale, of which scientists estimate 51 survive.

More: Despite best efforts of US Rep Matt Gaetz, Rice's Whale remains protected in Eglin fire zone

"It says 'considerable effort is also given to ensure real-time monitoring of whale activity in the Gulf of Mexico and to prevent whale strikes,' " Wright said, quoting the resolution language. "I'm not stating it's 100% where it needs to be, but there is effort being made already to get there."

Wagley waited until after the meeting to double down on his own position.

"The board unanimously passed a resolution that contains a blatantly false statement, even after being informed of it. This should make the good people of Santa Rosa County question the veracity of anything coming from the commission," he said in an email statement. "I informed the board both in writing and in person that there is no system in place to track and report Rice's Whale movements to help ships avoid them, nor is there one close to deployment. Even when challenged, they presented no information to support that claim in the resolution."

Rice's whale is now found primarily in DeSoto's Canyon, a deep depression along the continental shelf that runs between Pensacola and Fort Myers. The Eastern Gulf location serves to insulate the few remaining whales from the noise of commerce, gas and oil drilling and ship traffic that are more pervasive in the central and western Gulf.

More: Gulf of Mexico whale needs human help to avoid extinction

To protect the whales, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), had been soliciting input through July 6 on a proposal that would create a year-round 10-knot vessel speed restriction within waters between 100 meters and 400 meters deep in a segment of the Gulf between Pensacola and just south of Tampa.

It also has sought consideration of halting nighttime shipping through the area and designating an additional 10 kilometer buffer around the zone a "vessel slowdown zone."

Fishermen who favor the deep water areas for trophy fishing, as well as commercial entities that include the state's Port Authorities, have come out in opposition to the speed limit, which they say will adversely impact their interests. Other Northwest Florida counties have also opposed the proposition, citing potential impact to the nation's military mission within its Gulf Test Range.

Like others, Santa Rosa County's resolution pointed out the impacts the 10-knot speed limit and other provisions of the NOAA proposal could have on the economy and the military mission.

Commissioner James Calkins said NOAA's proposal, backed by Healthy Gulf and other conservation groups, amounted to the federal government impeding the rights of American citizens.

"It's disturbing our federal government would impose such a ban," he said.

More: 10-knot offshore speed zone could protect rare whale, but make boat trips very, very slow

Wright said he could find little common sense in the NOAA proposal.

"I think it's ludicrous to take an area that large and restrict the limit to 10 knots so nobody will run into 52 whales. I personally view it as a bit of an overreach by NOAA," he said. "It seems to me the likelihood of something like that happening seems low. I feel like I've got about as good a chance of getting struck by lightning than a whale does of getting hit by a boat in an area that large."

Wagley argued before the County Commission that 10-knot speed limits (about 11.5 mph) don't actually slow down big commercial vessels by very much and compared the speed limits to driving in a school zone. He said a similar effort in the Eastern Atlantic implemented to protect the endangered Right Whale has proven successful without a greatly detrimental economic impact and with no safety issues reported.

He also said the NOAA proposal provides speed exemptions for military vessels and the military reserves the right to opt out of its own testing limitations in the Gulf if it feels the need to do so.

Regarding his claim that the resolution regarding whale monitoring was false, Wagley informed commissioners that a pilot program to test the feasibility of monitoring Right Whales during their Atlantic migration has been authorized but is likely five years from implementation. Nothing similar has been suggested for Rice's Whale, which confines its movements to the Gulf of Mexico.

More: There are only 51 Rice's Whales left in the Gulf. Matt Gaetz wants to lift their protections.

In his statement against the board's Thursday action, Wagley called upon commissioners to "explain to the community why they passed a statement that they know contained false information."

He also claimed "anybody involved in whale conservation work" would know the statement contained within the resolution, that whale activity is monitored to prevent their being struck by boats, is false.

Michael Jasny with the Natural Resources Defense Council, not only confirmed Wagley's statements about the nonexistence of whale monitoring in the Gulf of Mexico, but also said it is unclear whether such monitoring would even be feasible given the habits of the Rice's Whale.

"There are questions whether it would even work," Jasny said, explaining that Rice's whales spend their days diving deep to catch "aggregations" of small fish that stick together during daylight hours. At night, when the small fish separate, the whales "rest" close to the surface of the water.

"At night, when they're resting near the surface they're not vocalizing and couldn't be heard," he said. "The monitoring wouldn't be effective, the whales are not available to be detected."

In the big picture, Santa Rosa's County Commission risks little in the way of accountability even if the resolution they've passed contains a false statement, according to Santa Rosa County Attorney Tom Dannheisser.

"The Board of County Commissioners would optimally want to be comfortable that we are aware of the correct facts, but theoretically if we passed a resolution based upon incorrect facts it would be unfortunate, but it wouldn't be a legal matter because a resolution is basically just a statement of sentiment or opinion," Dannheisser said in an email.

This article originally appeared on Pensacola News Journal: Santa Rosa Commission Rice's Whale resolution inaccurate, opponents say
""",

### Article 291 (subscription only)
None,

### Article 292
"""
FORT MYERS BEACH — The end times weren’t likely to come this far south. But there was a chance.

For days, forecasters had placed the spot Hurricane Ian would eventually make landfall within the cone of uncertainty. Most residents here fled.

Some didn’t. They hunkered down as best they could, flocking to sturdy buildings or upper floors. Surely, they figured, it would be safe above ground level.

Wednesday night proved some of them wrong. Daybreak on Thursday revealed devastation — more slices of salt-streaked Florida forever altered by a storm.

Those in charge struggled to offer a realistic assessment of the death toll: The Lee County sheriff told a national audience on “Good Morning America” that “hundreds” could be dead from the storm. Gov. Ron DeSantis later clarified that the sheriff’s number was an “estimate” based on emergency calls from people in flooded homes.

Later in the day, President Joe Biden told reporters the storm could be the “deadliest hurricane in Florida history.” That pronouncement is likely to prove incorrect, given Florida’s deadliest hurricane killed at least 2,500 in 1928.

Officials reported at least 17 hurricane deaths Thursday. That number is expected to increase.

With so much unaccountable and incalculable, the cataclysmic scenes in coastal towns across Southwest Florida told the story.

In Fort Myers Beach, blown-out homes blocked side streets, each an eruption of soggy wood and metal. Sand covered the main drag, Estero Boulevard, as if hurling the barrier island back in time. Emergency officials expect to find bodies in the rubble.

In Bonita Springs, multimillion-dollar homes crumbled. The streets, sidewalks and lawns were buried under at least 2 feet of wet sand and covered in a lattice of downed power lines.

And in downtown Venice, trees were uprooted, blocking roads. Business signs were blown out. Every other traffic light, broken.

Keven Behen, 60, who survived the night in Fort Myers Beach, offered his father this assessment over the phone while surveying the damage:

“The island is like somebody took an atom bomb and dropped it.”

The islands nearest the chaos of Ian’s eye were almost cut off from Florida’s mainland overnight. A section of the causeway leading to Sanibel vanished into the sea. The road to Pine Island, gone. People who chose to ride out the storm were stranded — in St. James City, Bokeelia and elsewhere.

Many of those who left haven’t been able to return to survey the damage to their homes, businesses, families.

In the early hours Wednesday morning, two cars tried to reach Sanibel, including a group of young men hoping to find their friend.

The pavement was folded up like an accordion, ripped to ribbons by a powerful storm surge. Nearby, a spiral staircase was deposited in the brush next to a white pickup. The storm flung a boat trailer and other debris, too.

They had to turn around.

Roberta Reale went to Venice Elementary School, where she teaches music, in hopes that the internet might be working. It wasn’t.

Without power, water or cell service, there was no way to see if her brother in North Port and her brother-in-law in Fort Myers were OK. Or whether her colleagues, some of whom were working at a nearby shelter, were all right.

“It’s like you’re cut off from what’s going on and everyone’s freaking out,” said Reale, 62.

Aimee Sansing, 46, tried to drive back to Pine Island at daybreak to check on her brother, who didn’t evacuate. She had not heard from him since Wednesday afternoon. A police officer she knew broke the news to her about the road she had been driving for decades. There was no way to get to her brother in Bokeelia, except by water.

Sansing saw the washout for the first time at about 5:30 p.m. Thursday, clear under a bright sun and blue sky.

A Ford Focus rested just above the water, caught between chunks of grass and concrete. Waves slapped against snapped wood from broken buildings. The fronds of the palm trees all faced south.

A dead bird lay on the roadway that remained, next to snaking power lines.

“I didn’t know the extent of it until just now,” Sansing said, shaking.

Karla Quillen, 67, works in a souvenir shop on Fort Myers Beach. She said it blew away from the first floor of the Lani Kai Island Resort.

Walking down Estero Boulevard, surveying the damage just before the sun peeked out Thursday morning, she felt lucky to have only lost a bike and car. Her voice caught behind tears.

“I just can’t believe that Mother Nature would do something like this,” she said. “My God.”

With few operable roads, first responders had to launch rescue missions by air.

A Coast Guard crew, normally based in Clearwater, set out from their temporary home in West Palm Beach just a few minutes after midnight. They’d fielded a call about a man trapped near the mangroves off of Pine Island. As the hurricane winds gusted, the crew hoisted the man into the MH60 Jayhawk helicopter.

That’s when they got their second call from another vessel in distress just minutes away, also near Pine Island. Another man, another boat, this one on its side in the water. Another rescue.

For the rest of the night, the crew whistled to and fro along Florida’s west coast, pulling people from the water and transporting the rescued to hospitals. An abandoned ship near Cortez. Kayakers near Gulfport. Back to the air station in Clearwater.

By the time the night was over, flight mechanic Megan Howard and her crewmates had saved seven people — just a fraction of the 700 overnight rescues notched by first responders, according to DeSantis.

“We would be in the middle of one case and find out about the next one,” Howard said.

The residents inhabiting a glitzy enclave of Bonita Springs could see the Coast Guard helicopters making their rescue trips. Mike and Julie Walton, who played host to their children, their kids’ spouses and the couple’s 10 grandchildren in their seaside fortress on Hickory Boulevard, considered themselves lucky to have avoided such a flight.

The couple took a sizable financial hit from the storm: Two of Mike’s classic cars, valued at more than $600,000, washed out of the garage and onto the sandy beach.

But when Julie Walton fought back tears watching her grandchildren gather the little pieces of her home into a big pile in the front yard, she said she wasn’t crying over material possessions.

“I can’t even think about what could have happened last night,” she said. “Our whole family, all of our grandkids, could have been washed away.”

Amid all the uncertainty and all of the what-ifs, some in Walton’s community found moments of light.

One of the neighbors, known for enjoying his larger-than-life collection of fine scotch on the beach at sunset, chuckled when the morning light revealed his hundreds of bottles of alcohol — now strewn across the front yard.

One of the Waltons’ grandsons managed to find his grandfather’s missing garden hose in the miles of debris lining the beach.

Nobody knew who owned the green race car that suddenly appeared in a home under construction.

And as the neighbors surveyed all of the damage left behind in the aftermath of the hurricane, two couldn’t help but notice that the birds were coming back home.

Staff writer Colleen Wright contributed to this report.


Tampa Bay Times Hurricane coverage
WHEN THE STORM HAS PASSED: Now what? Safety tips for returning home.

POST-STORM QUESTIONS: After Hurricane Ian, how to get help with fallen trees, food, damaged shelter.

WEATHER EFFECTS: Hurricane Ian was supposed to slam Tampa Bay head on. What happened?

WHAT TO DO IF HURRICANE DAMAGES YOUR HOME: Stay calm, then call your insurance company.

SCHOOLS: Will schools reopen quickly after Hurricane Ian passes? It depends.

SELF-CARE: Protect your mental health during a hurricane.

IT’S STORM SEASON: Get ready and stay informed at tampabay.com/hurricane.
""",

### Article 293
"""
So you have enough money to buy a yacht.

Maybe not a super yacht, like the billionaires own. But there are a lot of yachts on display around here. For just under $1 million you can buy a new 40-foot VanDutch Cruising Yacht, a sleek, speedy craft built for sun-drenched, cushioned comfort up top and air-conditioned relaxation in the hull.

It’s what the owners of an Illinois company thought they would soon get when they put down $150,000 toward its construction in March 2021. As part-time Miami Beach condo owners, the couple envisioned using the boat both for recreation and entertaining clients, according to their attorney.

They figured South Florida was the right place to find one. Fort Lauderdale, widely regarded as the “yachting capital of the world,” is home to nearly 100 yacht sales and brokerage companies, according to the website ftlauderdaleboating.com.

Two years later, they have no boat and no refund, and now they’re paying an attorney to recover their investment in federal court.

Florida might be a great marketplace for all kinds of boats, but before you hand over that cashier’s check to an agent or broker who’s promising to put you in the lap of high-seas luxury, you’ll need to make sure that your money is going to be protected in case something goes awry.

Related Articles
Business | Three years later, Wellington man still without the yacht he bought for $4 million

Business | The Fort Lauderdale International Boat show draws crowds amid economic anxiety

Business | Super yacht, tight squeeze: Fort Lauderdale facing gridlock crisis on New River

Failure to do so, as numerous boat buyers have learned, could leave you without a boat, without your money, and left to hire an attorney to seek restitution in court.

The complaint that the Illinois company recently filed in Miami against a longtime South Florida seller details two transactions for new boats that have so far left buyers empty-handed after handing over large sums.

Other Florida lawsuits filed by buyers who handed over large deposits for second-hand yachts could have been avoided if the buyers had made sure their money was being kept in a trust or escrow account as required under Florida law, said Miami-based attorney Paul McMahon.

McMahon is representing the Illinois company Med-Stop in its effort to recover the $150,000 that its owner Paul Kwiecinski put down in March 2021 toward construction and purchase of the 40-foot VanDutch yacht that caught their imaginations.

Who’s to blame?
According to the lawsuit, Med-Stop signed a contract with VanDutch Inc., a South Florida-based sales agent for popular VanDutch-branded yachts marketed by an Italian company called Cantiere Del Pardo, but designed and built by separate Dutch companies.


More than two years have passed, and Med-Stop hasn’t received its boat nor its deposit. In its lawsuit against VanDutch Inc., Med-Stop asserts that VanDutch Inc. violated Florida law requiring brokers to place any funds “received pursuant to a transaction” into a trust account in a bank or other financial institution with a net worth of more than $5 million until the sales is closed.

McMahon asserts that the provision covers all yacht and boat sales, and that VanDutch Inc. was required to comply because it was acting as a broker in the transaction.

However, VanDutch Inc.’s attorney Joseph Altschul disagrees, saying in an email that VanDutch Inc., as a sales agent for new vessels, was not licensed as a broker and thus not subject to provisions governing broker transactions.

McMahon says his review turned up no court rulings clarifying whether the requirement also applies to new yachts as well as to yachts being resold. He expects to establish that it does apply to new yachts as well, adding, “It would not surprise me if this case proves to be a wake-up call to Florida yacht brokers in new yacht transactions.”

Met-Stop’s suit claims that VanDutch Inc., its owner, its sales rep, and Cantiere Del Pardo defrauded Med-Stop by keeping its deposit and not delivering the boat Med-Stop’s owner ordered.

In an email responding to the suit, Altschul countered by saying that VanDutch Inc. recently offered to repay the deposit in six monthly installments of $250,000 each, but Med-Stop declined the offer. “All money received by VanDutch Inc. was property handled and remains available to refund to Med-Stop,” Altschul wrote.

In addition, the contract that Med-Stop signed with VanDutch Inc. exempts VanDutch Inc. from responsibility for any failure of the manufacturer to deliver the boat on or by the estimated delivery date, Altschul said.

Moreover, the suit’s assertion that VanDutch Inc. was acting as a sales agent for the Italian company Cantiere Del Pardo was incorrect, Altschul said. “VanDutch Inc. was never a sales agent for CDP,” the attorney wrote. “VanDutch Inc.’s agreement was with Van Dutch Production and Development, BV, a Dutch company, which subcontracted with CDP for production of the boat.”

Co-defendant Cantiere Del Pardo said by email that it “was not associated in any way neither with Med-Stop nor with VanDutch Inc.” and had no knowledge of the contracts discussed in the suit.

Protecting buyers’ investments
The question of how yacht buyers can protect their investments between the time they place their initial orders and pay their standard 10% deposits and take possession of their completed boats is a subject of intense discussion in online yacht-owner forums.

Numerous participants able to buy new yachts acknowledge fearing losing their investments if any of the companies in the construction process goes bankrupt or loses a key supplier. But they give varying advice about the best way to protect themselves, particularly when international boat brands and builders are involved. Because of the complexity such contracts demand, buyers should consider having a lawyer guide them through the process

In an essay posted on his LinkedIn page, Fort Lauderdale-based marine industry consultant Phil Friedman wrote that U.S. consumers can seek protection under the Uniform Commercial Code by “perfecting” what’s called a “preferred first security interest” in the new yacht. This essentially is a lien against the vessel in progress, which the builder must agree to include in the construction contract, that puts the buyer first in line for payout in the event of a shipyard reorganization or bankruptcy, Friedman wrote.

Similar protections are available in Canada and many countries in western Europe, he says, but adds that “new build buyer options narrow significantly” outside of the United States.

Sometimes buyers will visit big, well-established shipyards but find they’re contracting with a separate company that functions as a sales or marketing arm and has no assets to pursue if the vessel isn’t built under terms of the contract.

Trouble can ensue, he said, when the buyer pays a yacht sales company that in turn contracts with a shipbuilding company, which only leases its yard and other operating assets from yet another company.

“Therefore a new build buyer does well always to make sure that his or her contract is directly with the shipyard that will be building the yacht, or that the contract is specifically guaranteed by the shipyard involved, and backed by all the assets of that shipyard, and any other parent or umbrella corporation,” he said.

Another buyer that contracted in 2019 with VanDutch Inc. to build a yacht, a Michigan resident named Scott Wenzel, paid a $1 million deposit to have a 75-foot VanDutch yacht built overseas. When the vessel wasn’t built by the delivery date, Wenzel canceled the deposit and demanded his money back.

The case went to arbitration, as required under Wenzel’s contract with VanDutch Inc., and Wenzel won. Last October, a federal judge issued a default judgment affirming that VanDutch Inc. must repay the $1 million.

Altschul says VanDutch Inc. agreed to the arbitration award and judgment “to help Wenzel and his counsel obtain the money from VanDutch Holding BV, a Dutch company, Van Dutch Production and Development, BV, a Dutch company, and CDP (Cantiere Del Pardo).” He added VanDutch Inc. has since entered litigation against the Dutch entities relating to boats that were ordered but not produced by CDP, including Wenzel’s.”

The conflicts are reminiscent of another lawsuit first reported by the South Florida Sun Sentinel in 2019. In that case, a Wellington man, Kevin Turner, paid nearly $4 million to Fort Lauderdale-based yacht broker Rick Obey & Associates for construction of a vessel by British yacht builder SunSeeker.

Turner neither got his boat nor the money as Obey and SunSeeker blamed each other for a series of events that led to Obey losing its license to market SunSeeker yachts.

According to court records, the matter remains in litigation and Turner is still out his $4 million.

Brokers must hold money in trust
Even if Florida’s requirement that yacht brokers hold buyers’ money in trust or escrow applies only to vessels that are being resold, awareness of the law might have saved untold buyers a lot of money and/or time in court.

In 2019, a consumer sued a Miami boat dealer after paying a $11,150 deposit for a 2008 Hydra Sports 3300 Watercraft and then discovering “several defects” that “required several significant repairs,” according to a lawsuit by the consumer. Refund promises were repeatedly broken, the buyer claimed, and the case was settled after two years of litigation.

In 2014, a Broward County broker convinced a consumer to invest $20,000 to buy a yacht for $40,000 that the broker said would be worth $120,000 once repaired, another suit claimed. The broker promised to put up the other $20,000. After several months passed without repairs being made, the consumer learned that the boatyard where the yacht was being kept was preparing to sell it for non-payment of rent. The consumer had no authority to take possession because his name wasn’t on the title.

But perhaps one of the biggest wake-up calls alerting would-be yacht buyers of the need to protect their investments came in 2019, when Pinellas County prosecutors announced the arrest of longtime Madiera Beach yacht broker Matthew Taylor on charges he was systematically defrauding customers. Taylor, a former fishing guide, had owned the brokerage since 2004, and several of his five victims were repeat customers.

Victims included a man who paid $450,000 toward purchase and repair of an 86-foot Azimut yacht, and a man who gave him $669,955 as partial payment for an Azimut 62E.

According to the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office’s news release about Taylor’s arrest, Taylor, as a boat broker, was required by law “to place all deposits for vessels into an escrow account that complied with Florida law.” Instead, he “treated the account as if it were a business operating account and a personal checking account, which does not follow the law.”

In 2021, Taylor pleaded guilty to five counts of grand theft and one count of failure to comply with escrow requirements for yacht brokers. He was ordered to serve a 17-year sentence and pay more than $1 million in restitution.
""",

### Article 294
"""
This story was produced by Grist and co-published with Eater.

The first thing you notice walking up to a dai pai dong, one of Hong Kong’s signature open-air street food stalls, is the smoke. Aromatic plumes billow out from aluminum-covered vent hoods as chefs with decades of experience produce steaming plates of crackled shrimp, juicy mussels, and crisped-up rice by tossing the ingredients in a giant, flame-cradled wok.

As a foodie and avid stir-fry consumer, I love everything involved in wok cooking — the artistry, the bursts of orange under the deep, round-bottomed pan, the incomparable taste. But as a climate reporter, I see just one problem: It typically relies on gas stoves, which release planet-warming methane even when turned off.

Climate experts say that we need to phase out fossil fuel use to address the climate crisis, especially in buildings, which account for 35 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Gas stoves also produce harmful air pollutants like carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and benzene, a known carcinogen.

So when I heard that an all-electric food hall on Microsoft’s campus in Redmond, Washington, featured a pair of custom-made induction woks, I was eager to try out a climate-friendly stir-fry. Unlike gas stoves, induction ranges use electromagnetic currents to heat food, eliminating both the carbon emissions and harmful air pollutants produced by gas. Yet minutes into my lunch with a friend who works at Microsoft, my excitement dissolved. My tofu noodles arrived limp and drowning in vegetable oil.

As I poked at my soggy introduction to induction wok fare, I couldn’t help but think back to a plate of noodles I had eaten at a dai pai dong in Hong Kong just a few weeks before. The two noodle dishes could not have been more different. One was prepared with state-of-the-art climate tech — yet produced lukewarm results. The other was freshly tossed in a kerosene-fueled wok, yielding glossy, chewy noodles bursting with soy sauce, blackened slivers of onion, and, most importantly, that elusive, umami-filled char called wok hei.

Wok hei, loosely translated from Cantonese as the “breath of the wok,” represents the pinnacle of the stir-fry cooking technique most commonly associated with southern China. (While many cuisines rely on the wok, not all strive for that signature aroma.) From street food stalls to high-end restaurants, diners from all over the world seek the intangible flavor that renowned chef and “wok whisperer” Grace Young described as “a special life force or essence from the wok.”

For all its coveted glory, wok hei — and the question of what exactly produces it — remains somewhat mysterious. The term itself is fairly abstract: While wok refers to the cooking vessel, hei can simultaneously mean “air,” “breath,” “energy,” and “spirit,” leaving room for a variety of interpretations. Many chefs say that fire, and therefore a gas stove, is essential for achieving the aroma, putting it at odds with climate-driven legal trends: Since 2019, more than a hundred local governments across the United States have introduced policies to ban the use of natural gas in buildings, including gas stoves. Others argue that with high enough temperatures and a few adjustments, chefs can switch to induction and still produce foods with wok hei.

In the face of this gastronomic debate, many chefs are asking what an all-electric future will mean for cherished culinary traditions like wok cooking.

When the city of Berkeley, California, enacted its local gas ban in 2019, the California Restaurant Association sued, arguing that gas is essential for certain specialty techniques, including “the use of intense heat from a flame under a wok.” It wasn’t the only attempt to derail gas bans. An investigation by the Sacramento Bee, for example, revealed that the gas utility SoCalGas actively recruited Chinese American restaurant owners to advocate against electrification policies in Southern California.

It would be naive to say gas utility companies were driven by a love of great stir-fry when they turned their lobbying efforts toward wok-based cooking. But the culinary debate around whether wok hei can be achieved over an induction stove has certainly added fuel to the electrification debate.

For chefs, the most important consideration when it comes to switching off gas is whether induction can support their livelihoods. In cities like San Francisco and Los Angeles, some restaurant owners serving Chinese, Thai, and other Asian cuisines using woks have expressed concerns that local gas bans could jeopardize signature tastes and textures.

Whether individual chefs think that induction can achieve wok hei depends largely on how they define it. Wok cooking expert and food writer J. Kenji López-Alt, for example, defines wok hei as a quintessential smoky flavor. He told Grist that it’s impossible to achieve wok hei without gas or fire — and the reason comes down to the food science.

A number of different elements go into that signature smoky aroma, according to López-Alt. One is the flavor imparted from hot, well-seasoned carbon steel or cast iron, two of the most common materials used to make woks. Another component is the caramelization that happens when sauce hits a searing-hot pan. If you “watch a Chinese chef cooking, when they add soy sauce to a stir-fry, they swirl it around the outside of the pan, where it immediately sizzles and gets intense heat, and that changes the flavor and gives it a bit of smokiness,” he said.

But the main flavor component of wok hei, López-Alt says, comes from the igniting of aerosolized oil with fire. As chefs toss food up into the flames of a gas stove, tiny droplets of fat suspended in the air catch on fire, dripping back down into the wok to impart a subtle smokiness. “You can’t get that without an actual fire,” he said.

Martin Yan, restaurateur and longtime host of the PBS cooking show Yan Can Cook, has a different take on wok hei, which he defines as an ephemeral, fragrant aroma that lasts a mere 15 to 20 seconds after a dish is prepared. He told Grist that achieving that aroma depends not on fire but on applying intense, high heat. When fresh ingredients hit the wok’s surface, they undergo a Maillard reaction, in which proteins and sugars break down and develop new, complex flavors. “The wok hei is not created by the gas,” he said. “It’s created by the frying pan and that chemical reaction.”

In theory, Yan said, the heat could come from any source: electricity, gas, even wood or charcoal. “You could use nuclear fusion, as long as you can create that intense heat.”

Induction stoves, which can instantly heat to temperatures of up to 643 degrees Fahrenheit, are capable of the intensity Yan describes as necessary for wok hei. Yet some chefs like López-Alt say that the shape of the wok presents another obstacle to using induction. Woks feature a deep, high-walled bowl, which allows flames to curl around the vessel and create varied temperature zones — ideal for moving sauces and ingredients around to optimize flavors and control heat. But induction stoves are typically flat and activate only when directly in contact with the pan’s surface. Lifting the wok to toss ingredients, therefore, would result in an instant loss of heating.

Jon Kung, a Detroit-based chef and TikTok personality who advocates for induction cooking, says that induction stoves designed specifically for woks can help with this issue. Like Yan, he defines wok hei as a “mix of char and caramelization” as a result of the Maillard reaction, requiring high heat rather than flames.

Kung owns two portable induction wok burners that feature a curved heating bowl in which the wok sits, allowing for better temperature control up the sides of the pan. While this setup may not totally replicate the temperature gradient present in a traditional fire-heated wok, Kung said the conditions are sufficient for producing high-quality stir-fry, a task he points out is difficult even for those with gas stoves at home.

“It’s incorrect to assume that the only things you need to achieve wok hei are a wok and a gas burner,” he said in a 2023 video. “The ones in Chinese restaurants have a power output of 150,000 BTUs. That’s way more than the 30,000 that comes out of your Viking range. The fact of the matter is, these induction wok burners do a better job at mimicking the focus of energy into the bottom of a wok that you get from a genuine Chinese wok burner.”

While Kung’s induction models plug into a typical outlet and are designed for home use, similarly shaped and far more powerful commercial induction wok ranges exist on the market — including at Microsoft’s all-electric food court. But the stove itself wasn’t the reason for the company’s substandard stir-fry. The noodles I ate there appeared to have been batch-cooked, an efficient way to feed hungry tech workers but a less-than-optimal method for achieving wok hei, which depends on the freshness of the ingredients. And since I wasn’t present at the time of cooking, I also can’t evaluate the temperature used for cooking.

As of now, I can safely say that my induction-versus-flame-fueled wok hei taste test remains inconclusive. And sadly, I don’t have many nearby options to gather more data. Although Yan reported that some hotels in China like the Hilton and Marriott already exclusively use induction woks, commercial induction kitchens are rare in the United States.

According to a 2022 survey by the National Restaurant Association, 76 percent of restaurants in the U.S. still use gas. That proportion goes up to 87 percent for full-service restaurants, or sit-down eateries that provide table service. Meanwhile, less than 5 percent of U.S. households currently use an induction stove — though wok expert Grace Young has said she’s often asked which wok to buy for induction and glass-topped ranges.

A big reason for the lack of commercial induction uptake is the cost. Yan noted that induction wok burners for restaurants remain prohibitively expensive in the U.S., especially since the technology is still maturing. Upgrading a gas kitchen to accommodate all-electric appliances to begin with can require up to tens of thousands of dollars, an exorbitant price for businesses operating on thin profit margins. Commercial induction ranges also typically cost three to four times as much as gas-powered ones.

Kung told Grist that he is not aware of any restaurants in the U.S. achieving wok hei with induction — although he believes that with a few tweaks in technique, it’s “absolutely” possible. The problem, beyond the cost of induction ranges, is that chefs might also simply prefer the tactile experience of cooking with fire, or generally feel resistance to adopting new techniques. But Kung maintains that if governments want to take the climate crisis seriously, they need to pass policies to incentivize and help businesses switch to electric.

“Chefs are problem-solvers by nature,” Kung said, and will likely innovate and relearn how to achieve wok hei on induction at a commercial level.

Although López-Alt says achieving wok hei is not possible without a flame, he isn’t against induction stoves in general. He initially felt wary of switching when he first came across the debate over gas stoves a few years ago. Yet he eventually concluded that, for most Western cooking and home cooking, the technology can be just as good as gas if not better — not only for climate and health reasons but also in terms of efficiency of cooking.

“It’s a topic that gets a lot of knee-jerk, immediate reactions,” he said. But “for most things it actually makes sense to get rid of gas.”

"""
]












